 save one."

He met Poirot's gaze defiantly. A look of alertness crept into his
eyes, then faded again. "That one," he said, and jerked his head in the
direction of Cap Martin.

"Ah!" said Poirot.

This quiescence was well calculated to provoke the impetuous
temperament of the other.

                       15. The Comte de la Roche


Van Aldin read the letter through in silence. His face turned a dull
angry crimson. The men watching him saw the veins start out on his
forehead, and his big hands clench themselves unconsciously. He handed
back the letter without a word. M. Carrège was looking with close
attention at his desk, M. Caux's eyes were fixed upon the ceiling, and
M. Hercule Poirot was tenderly brushing a speck of dust from his coat
sleeve. With the greatest tact they none of them looked at Van Aldin.

It was M. Carrège, mindful of his status and his duties, who tackled
the unpleasant subject.

"Perhaps, Monsieur," he murmured, "you are aware by whom--er--this
letter was written?"

"Yes, I know," said Van Aldin heavily.

"Ah?" said the Magistrate inquiringly.

"A scoundrel who calls himself the Comte de la Roche."

There was a pause; then M. Poirot leaned forward, straightened a ruler
on the judge's desk, and addressed the millionaire directly.

"M. Van Aldin, we are all sensible, deeply sensible, of the pain it
must give you to speak of these matters, but believe me, Monsieur, it
is not the time for concealments. If justice is to be done, we must
know everything. If you will reflect a little minute you will realize
the truth of that clearly for yourself."

Van Aldin was silent for a moment or two, then almost reluctantly he
nodded his head in agreement.

"You are quite right, M. Poirot," he said. "Painful as it is, I have no
right to keep anything back."

The Commissary gave a sigh of relief, and the Examining Magistrate
leaned back in his chair and adjusted a pince-nez on his long thin nose.

"Perhaps you will tell us in your own words, M. Van Aldin," he said,
"all that you know of this gentleman."

"It began eleven or twelve years ago--in Paris. My daughter was a young
girl then, full of foolish, romantic notions, like all young girls are.
Unknown to me, she made the acquaintance of this Comte de la Roche. You
have heard of him, perhaps?"

The Commissary and Poirot nodded in assent.

"He calls himself the Comte de la Roche," continued Van Aldin, "but I
doubt if he has any right to the title."

"You would not have found his name in the _Almanach de Gotha_," agreed
the Commissary.

"I discovered as much," said Van Aldin. "The man was a good-looking,
plausible scoundrel, with a fatal fascination for women. Ruth was
infatuated with him, but I soon put a stop to the whole affair. The man
was no better than a common swindler."

"You are quite right," said the Commissary. "The Comte de la Roche is
well known to us. If it were possible, we should have laid him by the
heels before now, but _ma foi!_ it is not easy; the fellow is cunning,
his affairs are always conducted with ladies of high social position.
If he obtains money from them under false pretences or as the fruit
of blackmail, _eh bien!_ naturally they will not prosecute. To look
foolish in the eyes of the world, oh no, that would never do, and he
has an extraordinary power over women."

"That is so," said the millionaire heavily. "Well, as I told you, I
broke the affair up pretty sharply. I told Ruth exactly what he was,
and she had, perforce, to believe me. About a year afterwards, she met
her present husband and married him. As far as I knew, that was the end
of the matter; but only a week ago, I discovered, to my amazement, that
my daughter had resumed her acquaintance with the Comte de la Roche.
She had been meeting him frequently in London and Paris. I remonstrated
with her on her imprudence, for I may tell you gentlemen, that, on my
insistence, she was preparing to bring a suit for divorce against her
husband."

"That is interesting," murmured Poirot softly, his eyes on the ceiling.

Van Aldin looked at him sharply, and then went on.

"I pointed out to her the folly of continuing to see the Comte under
the circumstances. I thought she agreed with me."

The Examining Magistrate coughed delicately.

"But according to this letter--" he began, and then stopped.

Van Aldin's jaw set itself squarely.

"I know. It's no good mincing matters. However unpleasant, we have got
to face facts. It seems clear that Ruth had arranged to go to Paris and
meet de la Roche there. After my warnings to her, however, she must
have written to the Count suggesting a change of rendezvous."

"The Isles d'Or," said the Commissary thoughtfully, "are situated just
opposite Hyères, a remote and idyllic spot."

Van Aldin nodded.

"My God! How could Ruth be such a fool?" he exclaimed bitterly. "All
this talk about writing a book on jewels! Why, he must have been after
the rubies from the first."

"There are some very famous rubies," said Poirot, "originally part of
the Crown jewels of Russia; they are unique in character, and their
value is almost fabulous. There has been a rumour that they have lately
passed into the possession of an American. Are we right in concluding,
Monsieur, that you were the purchaser?"

"Yes," said Van Aldin. "They came into my possession in Paris about ten
days ago."

"Pardon me, Monsieur, but you have been negotiating for their purchase
for some time?"

"A little over two months. Why?"

"These things become known," said Poirot. "There is always a pretty
formidable crowd on the track of jewels such as these."

A spasm distorted the other's face.

"I remember," he said brokenly, "a joke I made to Ruth when I gave them
to her. I told her not to take them to the Riviera with her, as I could
not afford to have her robbed and murdered for the sake of the jewels.
My God! the things one says--never dreaming or knowing they will come
true."

There was a sympathetic silence, and then Poirot spoke in a detached
manner.

"Let us arrange our facts with order and precision. According to our
present theory, this is how they run. The Comte de la Roche knows of
your purchase of these jewels. By an easy stratagem he induces Madame
Kettering to bring the stones with her. He, then, is the man Mason saw
in the train at Paris."

The other three nodded in agreement.

"Madame is surprised to see him, but she deals with the situation
promptly. Mason is got out of the way; a dinner basket is ordered.
We know from the conductor that he made up the berth for the first
compartment, but he did not go into the second compartment, and that
a man could quite well have been concealed from him. So far the Comte
could have been hidden to a marvel. No one knows of his presence on the
train except Madame; he has been careful that the maid did not see his
face. All that she could say is that he was tall and dark. It is all
most conveniently vague. They are alone--and the train rushes through
the night. There would be no outcry, no struggle, for the man is, so
she thinks, her lover."

He turned gently to Van Aldin.

"Death, Monsieur, must have been almost instantaneous. We will pass
over that quickly. The Comte takes the jewel-case which lies ready to
his hand. Shortly afterwards the train draws into Lyons."

M. Carrège nodded his approval.

"Precisely. The conductor without descends. It would be easy for our
man to leave the train unseen; it would be easy to catch a train back
to Paris or anywhere he pleases. And the crime would be put down as an
ordinary train robbery. But for the letter found in Madame's bag, the
Comte would not have been mentioned."

"It was an oversight on his part not to search that bag," declared the
Commissary.

"Without doubt he thought she had destroyed that letter. It was--pardon
me, Monsieur--it was an indiscretion of the first water to keep it."

"And yet," murmured Poirot, "it was an indiscretion the Comte might
have foreseen."

"You mean?"

"I mean we are all agreed on one point, and that is that the Comte de
la Roche knows one subject _à fond_: Women. How was it that, knowing
women as he does, he did not foresee that Madame would have kept that
letter?"

"Yes--yes," said the Examining Magistrate doubtfully, "there is
something in what you say. But at such times, you understand, a man
is not master of himself. He does not reason calmly. _Mon Dieu!_" he
added, with feeling, "if our criminals kept their heads and acted with
intelligence, how should we capture them?"

Poirot smiled to himself.

"It seems to me a clear case," said the other, "but a difficult one
to prove. The Comte is a slippery customer, and unless the maid can
identify him--"

"Which is most unlikely," said Poirot.

"True, true." The Examining Magistrate rubbed his chin. "It is going to
be difficult."

"If he did indeed commit the crime--" began Poirot. M. Caux interrupted.

"If--you say _if_?"

"Yes, Monsieur le Juge, I say _if_."

The other looked at him sharply. "You are right," he said at last, "we
go too fast. It is possible that the Comte may have an alibi. Then we
should look foolish."

"_Ah, ça par exemple_," replied Poirot, "that is of no importance
whatever. Naturally, if he committed the crime he will have an alibi. A
man with the Comte's experience does not neglect to take precautions.
No, I said _if_ for a very different reason."

"And what was that?"

Poirot wagged an emphatic forefinger. "The psychology."

"Eh?" said the Commissary.

"The psychology is at fault. The Comte is a scoundrel--yes. The Comte
is a swindler--yes. The Comte preys upon women--yes. He proposes to
steal Madame's jewels--again yes. Is he the kind of man to commit
murder? I say _no_! A man of the type of the Comte is always a coward;
he takes no risks. He plays the safe, the mean, what the English call
the low-down game; but murder, a hundred times no!" He shook his head
in a dissatisfied manner.

The Examining Magistrate, however, did not seem disposed to agree with
him.

"The day always comes when such gentry lose their heads and go too
far," he observed sagely. "Doubtless that is the case here. Without
wishing to disagree with you, M. Poirot--"

"It was only an opinion," Poirot hastened to explain. "The case is, of
course, in your hands, and you will do what seems fit to you."

"I am satisfied in my own mind that the Comte de la Roche is the man we
need to get hold of," said M. Carrège. "You agree with me, Monsieur le
Commissaire?"

"Perfectly."

"And you, M. Van Aldin?"

"Yes," said the millionaire. "Yes; the man is a thorough-paced villain,
no doubt about it."

"It will be difficult to lay hands on him, I am afraid," said the
Magistrate, "but we will do our best. Telegraphed instructions shall go
out at once."

"Permit me to assist you," said Poirot. "There need be no difficulty."

"Eh?"

The others stared at him. The little man smiled beamingly back at them.

"It is my business to know things," he explained. "The Comte is a man
of intelligence. He is at present at a villa he has leased, the Villa
Marina at Antibes."




                     16. Poirot Discusses the Case


Everybody looked respectfully at Poirot. Undoubtedly the little man had
scored heavily. The Commissary laughed--on a rather hollow note.

"You teach us all our business," he cried. "M. Poirot knows more than
the police."

Poirot gazed complacently at the ceiling, adopting a mock-modest air.

"What will you; it is my little hobby," he murmured, "to know things.
Naturally I have the time to indulge it. I am not overburdened with
affairs."

"Ah!" said the Commissary shaking his head portentously. "As for me--"

He made an exaggerated gesture to represent the cares that lay on his
shoulders.

Poirot turned suddenly to Van Aldin.

"You agree, Monsieur, with this view? You feel certain that the Comte
de la Roche is the murderer?"

"Why, it would seem so--yes, certainly."

Something guarded in the answer made the Examining Magistrate look at
the American curiously. Van Aldin seemed aware of his scrutiny and made
an effort as though to shake off some preoccupation.

"What about my son-in-law?" he asked. "You have acquainted him with the
news? He is in Nice, I understand."

"Certainly, Monsieur." The Commissary hesitated, and then murmured very
discreetly: "You are doubtless aware, M. Van Aldin, that M. Kettering
was also one of the passengers on the Blue Train that night?"

The millionaire nodded.

"Heard it just before I left London," he vouchsafed laconically.

"He tells us," continued the Commissary, "that he had no idea his wife
was travelling on the train."

"I bet he hadn't," said Van Aldin grimly. "It would have been rather a
nasty shock to him if he'd come across her on it."

The three men looked at him questioningly.

"I'm not going to mince matters," said Van Aldin savagely. "No one
knows what my poor girl has had to put up with. Derek Kettering wasn't
alone. He had a lady with him."

"Ah?"

"Mirelle--the dancer."

M. Carrège and the Commissary looked at each other and nodded as though
confirming some previous conversation. M. Carrège leaned back in his
chair, joined his hands, and fixed his eyes on the ceiling.

"Ah!" he murmured again. "One wondered." He coughed. "One has heard
rumours."

"The lady," said M. Caux, "is very notorious."

"And also," murmured Poirot softly, "very expensive."

Van Aldin had gone very red in the face. He leant forward and hit the
table a bang with his fist.

"See here," he cried, "my son-in-law is a damned scoundrel!"

He glared at them, looking from one face to another.

"Oh, I know," he went on. "Good looks and a charming, easy manner.
It took me in once upon a time. I suppose he pretended to be
broken-hearted when you broke the news to him--that is, if he didn't
know it already."

"Oh, it came as a complete surprise to him. He was overwhelmed."

"Darned young hypocrite," said Van Aldin. "Simulated great grief, I
suppose?"

"N--no," said the Commissary cautiously. "I would not quite say
that--eh, M. Carrège?"

The Magistrate brought the tips of his fingers together, and half
closed his eyes.

"Shock, bewilderment, horror--these things, yes," he declared
judicially. "Great sorrow--no--I should not say that."

Hercule Poirot spoke once more.

"Permit me to ask, M. Van Aldin, does M. Kettering benefit by the death
of his wife?"

"He benefits to the tune of a couple of millions," said Van Aldin.

"Dollars?"

"Pounds. I settled that sum on Ruth absolutely on her marriage. She
made no will and leaves no children, so the money will go to her
husband."

"Whom she was on the point of divorcing," murmured Poirot. "Ah,
yes--_précisément_."

The Commissary turned and looked sharply at him.

"Do you mean--" he began.

"I mean nothing," said Poirot. "I arrange the facts, that is all."

Van Aldin stared at him with awakening interest.

The little man rose to his feet.

"I do not think I can be of any further service to you, M. le Juge," he
said politely, bowing to M. Carrège. "You will keep me informed of the
course of events? It will be a kindness."

"But certainly--most certainly."

Van Aldin rose also.

"You don't want me any more at present?"

"No, Monsieur; we have all the information we need for the moment."

"Then I will walk a little way with M. Poirot. That is, if he does not
object?"

"Enchanted, Monsieur," said the little man, with a bow.

Van Aldin lighted a large cigar, having first offered one to Poirot,
who declined it and lit one of his own tiny cigarettes. A man of great
strength of character, Van Aldin already appeared to be his everyday,
normal self once more. After strolling along for a minute or two in
silence, the millionaire spoke:

"I take it, M. Poirot, that you no longer exercise your profession?"

"That is so, Monsieur. I enjoy the world."

"Yet you are assisting the police in this affair?"

"Monsieur, if a doctor walks along the street and an accident happens,
does he say, 'I have retired from my profession, I will continue my
walk,' when there is some one bleeding to death at his feet? If I
had been already in Nice, and the police had sent to me and asked me
to assist them, I should have refused. But this affair, the good God
thrust it upon me."

"You were on the spot," said Van Aldin thoughtfully. "You examined the
compartment, did you not?"

Poirot nodded.

"Doubtless you found things that were, shall we say, suggestive to you?"

"Perhaps," said Poirot.

"I hope you see what I am leading up to?" said Van Aldin. "It seems to
me that the case against this Comte de la Roche is perfectly clear, but
I am not a fool. I have been watching you for this last hour or so, and
I realize that for some reason of your own you don't agree with that
theory?"

Poirot shrugged his shoulders.

"I may be wrong."

"So we come to the favour I want to ask you. Will you act in this
matter for me?"

"For you personally?"

"That was my meaning."

Poirot was silent for a moment or two. Then he said:

"You realize what you are asking?"

"I guess so," said Van Aldin.

"Very well," said Poirot. "I accept. But in that case, I must have
frank answers to my questions."

"Why, certainly. That is understood."

Poirot's manner changed. He became suddenly brusque and business-like.

"This question of a divorce," he said. "It was you who advised your
daughter to bring the suit?"

"Yes."

"When?"

"About ten days ago. I had had a letter from her complaining of her
husband's behaviour, and I put it to her very strongly that divorce was
the only remedy."

"In what way did she complain of his behaviour?"

"He was being seen about with a _very_ notorious lady--the one we have
been speaking of--Mirelle."

"The dancer. Ah-ha! And Madame Kettering objected? Was she very devoted
to her husband?"

"I would not say that," said Van Aldin, hesitating a little.

"It was not her heart that suffered, it was her pride--is that what you
would say?"

"Yes, I suppose you might put it like that."

"I gather that the marriage had not been a happy one from the
beginning?"

"Derek Kettering is rotten to the core," said Van Aldin. "He is
incapable of making any woman happy."

"He is, as you say in England, a bad lot. That is right, is it not?"

Van Aldin nodded.

"_Très bien!_ You advise Madame to seek a divorce, she agrees; you
consult your solicitors. When does M. Kettering get news of what is in
the wind?"

"I sent for him myself, and explained the course of action I proposed
to take."

"And what did he say?" murmured Poirot softly.

Van Aldin's face darkened at the remembrance.

"He was infernally impudent."

"Excuse the question, Monsieur, but did he refer to the Comte de la
Roche?"

"Not by name," growled the other unwillingly, "but he showed himself
cognizant of the affair."

"What, if I may ask, was M. Kettering's financial position at the time?"

"How do you suppose I should know that?" asked Van Aldin, after a very
brief hesitation.

"It seemed likely to me that you would inform yourself on that point."

"Well--you are quite right, I did. I discovered that Kettering was on
the rocks."

"And now he has inherited two million pounds! _La vie_--it is a strange
thing, is it not?"

Van Aldin looked at him sharply.

"What do you mean?"

"I moralize," said Poirot. "I reflect, I speak the philosophy. But to
return to where we were. Surely M. Kettering did not propose to allow
himself to be divorced without making a fight for it?"

Van Aldin did not answer for a minute or two, then he said:

"I don't exactly know what his intentions were."

"Did you hold any further communications with him?"

Again a slight pause, then Van Aldin said:

"No."

Poirot stopped dead, took off his hat, and held out his hand.

"I must wish you good-day, Monsieur. I can do nothing for you."

"What are you getting at?" demanded Van Aldin angrily.

"If you do not tell me the truth, I can do nothing."

"I don't know what you mean."

"I think you do. You may rest assured, M. Van Aldin, that I know how to
be discreet."

"Very well, then," said the millionaire. "I'll admit that I was not
speaking the truth just now. I _did_ have further communication with my
son-in-law."

"Yes?"

"To be exact, I sent my secretary, Major Knighton, to see him, with
instructions to offer him the sum of one hundred thousand pounds in
cash if the divorce went through undefended."

"A pretty sum of money," said Poirot appreciatively; "and the answer of
Monsieur your son-in-law?"

"He sent back word that I could go to hell," replied the millionaire
succinctly.

"Ah!" said Poirot.

He betrayed no emotion of any kind. At the moment he was engaged in
methodically recording facts.

"Monsieur Kettering has told the police that he neither saw nor spoke
to his wife on the journey from England. Are you inclined to believe
that statement, Monsieur?"

"Yes, I am," said Van Aldin. "He would take particular pains to keep
out of her way, I should say."

"Why?"

"Because he had got that woman with him."

"Mirelle?"

"Yes."

"How did you come to know that fact?"

"A man of mine, whom I had put on to watch him, reported to me that
they had both left by that train."

"I see," said Poirot. "In that case, as you said before, he would not
be likely to attempt to hold any communication with Madame Kettering."

The little man fell silent for some time. Van Aldin did not interrupt
his meditation.




                     17. An Aristocratic Gentleman


"You have been to the Riviera before, Georges?" said Poirot to his
valet the following morning.

George was an intensely English, rather wooden-faced individual.

"Yes, sir. I was here two years ago when I was in the service of Lord
Edward Frampton."

"And to-day," murmured his master, "you are here with Hercule Poirot.
How one mounts in the world!"

The valet made no reply to this observation. After a suitable pause he
asked:

"The brown lounge suit, sir? The wind is somewhat chilly to-day."

"There is a grease spot on the waistcoat," objected Poirot. "A
_morceau_ of _filet de sole à la Jeannette_ alighted there when I was
lunching at the Ritz last Tuesday."

"There is no spot there now, sir," said George reproachfully. "I have
removed it."

"_Très bien!_" said Poirot. "I am pleased with you, Georges."

"Thank you, sir."

There was a pause, and then Poirot murmured dreamily:

"Supposing, my good Georges, that you had been born in the same social
sphere as your late master, Lord Edward Frampton--that, penniless
yourself, you had married an extremely wealthy wife, but that that wife
proposed to divorce you, with excellent reasons, what would you do
about it?"

"I should endeavour, sir," replied George, "to make her change her
mind."

"By peaceful or by forcible methods?"

George looked shocked.

"You will excuse me, sir," he said, "but a gentleman of the aristocracy
would not behave like a Whitechapel coster. He would not do anything
low."

"Would he not, Georges? I wonder now. Well, perhaps you are right."

There was a knock on the door. George went to it and opened it a
discreet inch or two. A low murmured colloquy went on, and then the
valet returned to Poirot.

"A note, sir."

Poirot took it. It was from M. Caux, the Commissary of Police.

"We are about to interrogate the Comte de la Roche. The Juge
d'Instruction begs that you will be present."

"Quickly, my suit, Georges! I must hasten myself."

A quarter of an hour later, spick and span in his brown suit, Poirot
entered the Examining Magistrate's room. M. Caux was already there, and
both he and M. Carrège greeted Poirot with polite _empressement_.

"The affair is somewhat discouraging," murmured M. Caux.

"It appears that the Comte arrived in Nice the day before the murder."

"If that is true, it will settle your affair nicely for you," responded
Poirot.

M. Carrège cleared his throat.

"We must not accept this alibi without very cautious inquiry," he
declared. He struck the bell upon the table with his hand.

In another minute a tall dark man, exquisitely dressed, with a
somewhat haughty cast of countenance, entered the room. So very
aristocratic-looking was the Count, that it would have seemed
sheer heresy even to whisper that his father had been an obscure
corn-chandler in Nantes--which, as a matter of fact, was the case.
Looking at him, one would have been prepared to swear that innumerable
ancestors of his must have perished by the guillotine in the French
Revolution.

"I am here, gentlemen," said the Count haughtily. "May I ask why you
wish to see me?"

"Pray be seated, Monsieur le Comte," said the Examining Magistrate
politely. "It is the affair of the death of Madame Kettering that we
are investigating."

"The death of Madame Kettering? I do not understand."

"You were--ahem!--acquainted with the lady, I believe, Monsieur le
Comte?"

"Certainly I was acquainted with her. What has that to do with the
matter?"

Sticking an eyeglass in his eye, he looked coldly round the room, his
glance resting longest on Poirot, who was gazing at him with a kind of
simple, innocent admiration which was most pleasing to the Count's
vanity. M. Carrège leaned back in his chair and cleared his throat.

"You do not perhaps know, Monsieur le Comte"--he paused--"that Madame
Kettering was murdered?"

"Murdered? _Mon Dieu_, how terrible!"

The surprise and the sorrow were excellently done--so well done,
indeed, as to seem wholly natural.

"Madame Kettering was strangled between Paris and Lyons," continued M.
Carrège, "and her jewels were stolen."

"It is iniquitous!" cried the Count warmly; "the police should do
something about these train bandits. Nowadays no one is safe."

"In Madame's handbag," continued the Judge, "we found a letter to her
from you. She had, it seemed, arranged to meet you?"

The Count shrugged his shoulders and spread out his hands.

"Of what use are concealments," he said frankly. "We are all men of the
world. Privately and between ourselves, I admit the affair."

"You met her in Paris and travelled down with her, I believe?" said M.
Carrège.

"That was the original arrangement, but by Madame's wish it was
changed. I was to meet her at Hyères."

"You did not meet her on the train at the Gare de Lyon on the evening
of the 14th?"

"On the contrary, I arrived in Nice on the morning of that day, so what
you suggest is impossible."

"Quite so, quite so," said M. Carrège. "As a matter of form, you would
perhaps give me an account of your movements during the evening and
night of the 14th."

The Count reflected for a minute.

"I dined in Monte Carlo at the Café de Paris. Afterwards I went to the
Le Sporting. I won a few thousand francs," he shrugged his shoulders.
"I returned home at perhaps one o'clock."

"Pardon me, Monsieur, but how did you return home?"

"In my own two-seater car."

"No one was with you?"

"No one."

"You could produce witnesses in support of this statement?"

"Doubtless many of my friends saw me there that evening. I dined alone."

"Your servant admitted you on your return to your villa?"

"I let myself in with my own latch-key."

"Ah!" murmured the Magistrate.

Again he struck the bell on the table with his hand. The door opened,
and a messenger appeared.

"Bring in the maid, Mason," said M. Carrège.

"Very good, Monsieur le Juge."

Ada Mason was brought in.

"Will you be so good, Mademoiselle, as to look at this gentleman.
To the best of your ability was it he who entered your mistress's
compartment in Paris?"

The woman looked long and searchingly at the Count, who was, Poirot
fancied, rather uneasy under this scrutiny.

"I could not say, sir, I am sure," said Mason at last. "It might be and
again it might not. Seeing as how I only saw his back, it's hard to
say. I rather think it _was_ the gentleman."

"But you are not sure?"

"No--o," said Mason unwillingly; "n--no, I am not sure."

"You have seen this gentleman before in Curzon Street?"

Mason shook her head.

"I should not be likely to see any visitors that come to Curzon
Street," she explained, "unless they were staying in the house."

"Very well, that will do," said the Examining Magistrate sharply.

Evidently he was disappointed.

"One moment," said Poirot. "There is a question I would like to put to
Mademoiselle, if I may?"

"Certainly, M. Poirot--certainly, by all means."

Poirot addressed himself to the maid.

"What happened to the tickets?"

"The tickets, sir?"

"Yes; the tickets from London to Nice. Did you or your mistress have
them?"

"The mistress had her own Pullman ticket, sir; the others were in my
charge."

"What happened to them?"

"I gave them to the conductor on the French train, sir; he said it was
usual. I hope I did right, sir?"

"Oh, quite right, quite right. A mere matter of detail."

Both M. Caux and the Examining Magistrate looked at him curiously.
Mason stood uncertainly for a minute or two, and then the Magistrate
gave her a brief nod of dismissal, and she went out. Poirot scribbled
something on a scrap of paper and handed it across to M. Carrège. The
latter read it and his brow cleared.

"Well, gentlemen," demanded the Count haughtily, "am I to be detained
further?"

"Assuredly not, assuredly not," M. Carrège hastened to say, with a
great deal of amiability. "Everything is now cleared up as regards your
own position in this affair. Naturally, in view of Madame's letter, we
were bound to question you."

The Count rose, picked up his handsome stick from the corner, and, with
rather a curt bow, left the room.

"And that is that," said M. Carrège. "You were quite right, M.
Poirot--much better to let him feel he is not suspected. Two of my men
will shadow him night and day, and at the same time we will go into the
question of the alibi. It seems to me rather--er--a fluid one."

"Possibly," agreed Poirot thoughtfully.

"I asked M. Kettering to come here this morning," continued the
Magistrate, "though really I doubt if we have much to ask him, but
there are one or two suspicious circumstances--" He paused, rubbing his
nose.

"Such as?" asked Poirot.

"Well"--the Magistrate coughed--"this lady with whom he is said to be
travelling--Mademoiselle Mirelle. She is staying at one hotel and he at
another. That strikes me--er--as rather odd."

"It looks," said M. Caux, "as though they were being careful."

"Exactly," said M. Carrège triumphantly; "and what should they have to
be careful about?"

"An excess of caution is suspicious, eh?" said Poirot.

"_Précisément._"

"We might, I think," murmured Poirot, "ask M. Kettering one or two
questions."

The Magistrate gave instructions. A moment or two later, Derek
Kettering, debonair as ever, entered the room.

"Good morning, Monsieur," said the Judge politely.

"Good morning," said Derek Kettering curtly. "You sent for me. Has
anything fresh turned up?"

"Pray sit down, Monsieur."

Derek took a seat and flung his hat and stick on the table.

"Well?" he asked impatiently.

"We have, so far, no fresh data," said M. Carrège cautiously.

"That's very interesting," said Derek drily. "Did you send for me here
in order to tell me that?"

"We naturally thought, Monsieur, that you would like to be informed of
the progress of the case," said the Magistrate severely.

"Even if the progress was non-existent."

"We also wished to ask you a few questions."

"Ask away."

"You are quite sure that you neither saw nor spoke with your wife on
the train?"

"I've answered that already. I did not."

"You had, no doubt, your reasons."

Derek stared at him suspiciously.

"I--did--not--know--she--was--on--the--train," he explained, spacing
his words elaborately, as though to some one dull of intellect.

"That is what you say, yes," murmured M. Carrège. A frown suffused
Derek's face.

"I should like to know what you're driving at. Do you know what I
think, M. Carrège?"

"What do you think, Monsieur?"

"I think the French police are vastly overrated. Surely you must have
some data as to these gangs of train robbers. It's outrageous that
such a thing could happen on a _train de luxe_ like that, and that the
French police should be helpless to deal with the matter."

"We are dealing with it, Monsieur, never fear."

"Madame Kettering, I understand, did not leave a will," interposed
Poirot suddenly. His fingertips were joined together, and he was
looking intently at the ceiling.

"I don't think she ever made one," said Kettering. "Why?"

"It is a very pretty little fortune that you inherit there," said
Poirot--"a very pretty little fortune."

Although his eyes were still on the ceiling, he managed to see the dark
flush that rose to Derek Kettering's face.

"What do you mean, and who are you?"

Poirot gently uncrossed his knees, withdrew his gaze from the ceiling,
and looked the young man full in the face.

"My name is Hercule Poirot," he said quietly, "and I am probably the
greatest detective in the world. You are quite sure that you did not
see or speak to your wife on that train?"

"What are you getting at? Do you--do you mean to insinuate that I--I
killed her?"

He laughed suddenly.

"I mustn't lose my temper; it's too palpably absurd. Why, if I killed
her I should have had no need to steal her jewels, would I?"

"That is true," murmured Poirot, with a rather crestfallen air. "I did
not think of that."

"If ever there were a clear case of murder and robbery, this is it,"
said Derek Kettering. "Poor Ruth, it was those damned rubies did for
her. It must have got about she had them with her. There has been
murder done for those same stones before now, I believe."

Poirot sat up suddenly in his chair. A very faint green light glowed in
his eyes. He looked extraordinarily like a sleek, well-fed cat.

"One more question, M. Kettering," he said. "Will you give me the date
when you last saw your wife?"

"Let me see," Kettering reflected. "It must have been--yes over three
weeks ago. I am afraid I can't give you the date exactly."

"No matter," said Poirot drily; "that is all I wanted to know."

"Well," said Derek Kettering impatiently, "anything further?"

He looked towards M. Carrège. The latter sought inspiration from
Poirot, and received it in a very faint shake of the head.

"No, M. Kettering," he said politely; "no, I do not think we need
trouble you any further. I wish you good morning."

"Good morning," said Kettering. He went out, banging the door behind
him.

Poirot leaned forward and spoke sharply, as soon as the young man was
out of the room.

"Tell me," he said peremptorily, "when did you speak of these rubies to
M. Kettering?"

"I have not spoken of them," said M. Carrège. "It was only yesterday
afternoon that we learnt about them from M. Van Aldin."

"Yes; but there was a mention of them in the Comte's letter."

M. Carrège looked pained.

"Naturally I did not speak of that letter to M. Kettering," he said in
a shocked voice. "It would have been most indiscreet at the present
juncture of affairs."

Poirot leaned forward and tapped the table.

"_Then how did he know about them?_" he demanded softly. "Madame could
not have told him, for he has not seen her for three weeks. It seems
unlikely that either M. Van Aldin or his secretary would have mentioned
them; their interviews with him have been on entirely different lines,
and there has not been any hint or reference to them in the newspapers."

He got up and took his hat and stick.

"And yet," he murmured to himself, "our gentleman knows all about them.
I wonder now, yes, I wonder!"




                           18. Derek Lunches


Derek Kettering went straight to the Negresco, where he ordered a
couple of cocktails and disposed of them rapidly; then he stared
moodily out over the dazzling blue sea. He noted the passers-by
mechanically--a damned dull crowd, badly dressed, and painfully
uninteresting; one hardly ever saw anything worth while nowadays. Then
he corrected this last impression rapidly, as a woman placed herself at
a table a little distance away from him. She was wearing a marvellous
confection of orange and black, with a little hat that shaded her face.
He ordered a third cocktail; again he stared out to sea, and then
suddenly he started. A well-known perfume assailed his nostrils, and he
looked up to see the orange-and-black lady standing beside him. He saw
her face now, and recognized her. It was Mirelle. She was smiling that
insolent, seductive smile he knew so well.

"Dereek!" she murmured. "You are pleased to see me, no?"

She dropped into a seat the other side of the table.

"But welcome me, then, stupid one," she mocked.

"This is an unexpected pleasure," said Derek. "When did you leave
London?"

She shrugged her shoulders.

"A day or two ago."

"And the Parthenon?"

"I have, how do you say it?--given them the chuck!"

"Really?"

"You are not very amiable, Dereek."

"Do you expect me to be?"

Mirelle lit a cigarette and puffed at it for a few minutes before
saying:

"You think, perhaps, that it is not prudent so soon?"

Derek stared at her, then he shrugged his shoulders, and remarked
formally:

"You are lunching here?"

"_Mais oui._ I am lunching with you."

"I am extremely sorry," said Derek. "I have a very important
engagement."

"_Mon Dieu!_ But you men are like children," exclaimed the dancer. "But
yes, it is the spoilt child that you act to me ever since that day in
London when you flung yourself out of my flat, you sulk. Ah! _mais
c'est inoui!_"

"My dear girl," said Derek, "I really don't know what you are talking
about. We agreed in London that rats desert a sinking ship, that is all
that there is to be said."

In spite of his careless words, his face looked haggard and strained.
Mirelle leaned forward suddenly.

"You cannot deceive me," she murmured. "I know--I know what you have
done for me."

He looked up at her sharply. Some undercurrent in her voice arrested
his attention. She nodded her head at him.

"Ah! have no fear; I am discreet. You are magnificent! You have a
superb courage, but, all the same, it was I who gave you the idea that
day, when I said to you in London that accidents sometimes happened.
And you are not in danger? The police do not suspect you?"

"What the devil--"

"Hush!"

She held up a slim olive hand with one big emerald on the little finger.

"You are right; I should not have spoken so in a public place. We will
not speak of the matter again, but our troubles are ended; our life
together will be wonderful--wonderful!"

Derek laughed suddenly--a harsh, disagreeable laugh.

"So the rats come back, do they? Two million makes a difference--of
course it does. I ought to have known that." He laughed again. "You
will help me to spend that two million, won't you, Mirelle? You know
how, no woman better." He laughed again.

"Hush!" cried the dancer. "What is the matter with you, Dereek?
See--people are turning to stare at you."

"Me? I will tell you what is the matter. I have finished with you,
Mirelle. Do you hear? Finished!"

Mirelle did not take it as he expected her to do. She looked at him for
a minute or two, and then she smiled softly.

"But what a child! You are angry--you are sore, and all because I am
practical. Did I not always tell you that I adored you?"

She leaned forward.

"But I know you, Dereek. Look at me--see, it is Mirelle who speaks to
you. You cannot live without her, you know it. I loved you before, I
will love you a hundred times more now. I will make life wonderful for
you--but wonderful. There is no one like Mirelle."

Her eyes burned into his. She saw him grow pale and draw in his breath,
and she smiled to herself contentedly. She knew her own magic and power
over men.

"That is settled," she said softly, and gave a little laugh. "And now,
Dereek, will you give me lunch?"

"No."

He drew in his breath sharply and rose to his feet.

"I am sorry, but I told you--I have got an engagement."

"You are lunching with some one else? Bah! I don't believe it."

"I am lunching with that lady over there."

He crossed abruptly to where a lady in white had just come up the
steps. He addressed her a little breathlessly.

"Miss Grey, will you--will you have lunch with me? You met me at Lady
Tamplin's, if you remember."

Katherine looked at him for a minute or two with those thoughtful grey
eyes that said so much.

"Thank you," she said, after a moment's pause; "I should like to very
much."




                       19. An Unexpected Visitor


The Comte de la Roche had just finished _déjeuner_, consisting of an
_omelette fines herbes_, an _entrecôte Béarnaise_, and a _Savarin
au Rhum_. Wiping his fine black moustache delicately with his table
napkin, the Comte rose from the table. He passed through the salon of
the villa, noting with appreciation the few _objets d'art_ which were
carelessly scattered about. The Louis XV snuff-box, the satin shoe
worn by Marie Antoinette, and the other historic trifles were part of
the Comte's _mise en scène_. They were, he would explain to his fair
visitors, heirlooms in his family. Passing through on to the terrace,
the Comte looked out on the Mediterranean with an unseeing eye. He was
in no mood for appreciating the beauties of scenery. A fully matured
scheme had been rudely brought to naught, and his plans had to be cast
afresh. Stretching himself out in a basket chair, a cigarette held
between his white fingers, the Comte pondered deeply.

Presently Hippolyte, his man-servant, brought out coffee and a choice
of liqueurs. The Comte selected some very fine old brandy.

As the man-servant was preparing to depart, the Comte arrested him
with a slight gesture. Hippolyte stood respectfully to attention. His
countenance was hardly a prepossessing one, but the correctitude of his
demeanour went far to obliterate the fact. He was now the picture of
respectful attention.

"It is possible," said the Comte, "that in the course of the next few
days various strangers may come to the house. They will endeavour to
scrape acquaintance with you and with Marie. They will probably ask you
various questions concerning me."

"Yes, Monsieur le Comte."

"Perhaps this has already happened?"

"No, Monsieur le Comte."

"There have been no strangers about the place? You are certain?"

"There has been no one, Monsieur le Comte."

"That is well," said the Comte drily; "nevertheless they will come--I
am sure of it. They will ask questions."

Hippolyte looked at his master in intelligent anticipation.

The Comte spoke slowly, without looking at Hippolyte.

"As you know, I arrived here last Tuesday morning. If the police or any
other inquirer should question you, do not forget that fact. I arrived
on Tuesday, the 14th--not Wednesday, the 15th. You understand?"

"Perfectly, Monsieur le Comte."

"In an affair where a lady is concerned, it is always necessary to be
discreet. I feel certain, Hippolyte, that you can be discreet."

"I can be discreet, Monsieur."

"And Marie?"

"Marie also. I will answer for her."

"That is well then," murmured the Comte.

When Hippolyte had withdrawn, the Comte sipped his black coffee with
a reflective air. Occasionally he frowned, once he shook his head
slightly, twice he nodded it. Into the midst of these cogitations came
Hippolyte once more.

"A lady, Monsieur."

"A lady?"

The Comte was surprised. Not that a visit from a lady was an unusual
thing at the Villa Marina, but at this particular moment the Comte
could not think who the lady was likely to be.

"She is, I think, a lady not known to Monsieur," murmured the valet
helpfully.

The Comte was more and more intrigued.

"Show her out here, Hippolyte," he commanded.

A moment later a marvellous vision in orange and black stepped out on
the terrace, accompanied by a strong perfume of exotic blossoms.

"Monsieur le Comte de la Roche?"

"At your service, Mademoiselle," said the Comte, bowing.

"My name is Mirelle. You may have heard of me."

"Ah, indeed, Mademoiselle, but who has not been enchanted by the
dancing of Mademoiselle Mirelle? Exquisite!"

The dancer acknowledged this compliment with a brief mechanical smile.

"My descent upon you is unceremonious," she began.

"But seat yourself, I beg of you, Mademoiselle," cried the Comte,
bringing forward a chair.

Behind the gallantry of his manner he was observing her narrowly. There
were very few things that the Comte did not know about women. True, his
experience had not lain much in ladies of Mirelle's class, who were
themselves predatory. He and the dancer were, in a sense, birds of a
feather. His arts, the Comte knew, would be thrown away on Mirelle. She
was a Parisienne, and a shrewd one. Nevertheless, there was one thing
that the Comte could recognize infallibly when he saw it. He knew at
once that he was in the presence of a very angry woman, and an angry
woman, as the Comte was well aware, always says more than is prudent,
and is occasionally a source of profit to a level-headed gentleman who
keeps cool.

"It is most amiable of you, Mademoiselle, to honour my poor abode thus."

"We have mutual friends in Paris," said Mirelle. "I have heard of you
from them, but I come to see you to-day for another reason. I have
heard of you since I came to Nice--in a different way, you understand."

"Ah?" said the Comte softly.

"I will be brutal," continued the dancer; "nevertheless, believe that I
have your welfare at heart. They are saying in Nice, Monsieur le Comte,
that you are the murderer of the English lady, Madame Kettering."

"I!--the murderer of Madame Kettering? Bah! But how absurd!"

He spoke more languidly than indignantly, knowing that he would thus
provoke her further.

"But yes," she insisted; "it is as I tell you."

"It amuses people to talk," murmured the Comte indifferently. "It would
be beneath me to take such wild accusations seriously."

"You do not understand." Mirelle bent forward, her dark eyes flashing.
"It is not the idle talk of those in the streets. It is the police."

"The police--ah?"

The Comte sat up, alert once more.

Mirelle nodded her head vigorously several times.

"Yes, yes. You comprehend me--I have friends every where. The Prefect
himself--" She left the sentence unfinished, with an eloquent shrug of
the shoulders.

"Who is not indiscreet where a beautiful woman is concerned?" murmured
the Count politely.

"The police believe that you killed Madame Kettering. But they are
wrong."

"Certainly they are wrong," agreed the Comte easily.

"You say that, but you do not know the truth. I do."

The Comte looked at her curiously.

"You know who killed Madame Kettering? Is that what you would say,
Mademoiselle?"

Mirelle nodded vehemently.

"Yes."

"Who was it?" asked the Comte sharply.

"Her husband." She bent nearer to the Comte, speaking in a low voice
that vibrated with anger and excitement. "It was her husband who killed
her."

The Comte leant back in his chair. His face was a mask.

"Let me ask you, Mademoiselle--how do you know this?"

"How do I know it?" Mirelle sprang to her feet, with a laugh. "He
boasted of it beforehand. He was ruined, bankrupt, dishonoured. Only
the death of his wife could save him. He told me so. He travelled
on the same train--but she was not to know it. Why was that, I ask
you? So that he might creep upon her in the night--Ah!"--she shut her
eyes--"I can see it happening...."

The Count coughed.

"Perhaps--perhaps," he murmured. "But surely, Mademoiselle, in that
case he would not steal the jewels?"

"The jewels!" breathed Mirelle. "The jewels. Ah! Those rubies...."

Her eyes grew misty, a far-away light in them. The Comte looked at her
curiously, wondering for the hundredth time at the magical influence of
precious stones on the female sex. He recalled her to practical matters.

"What do you want me to do, Mademoiselle?"

Mirelle became alert and business-like once more.

"Surely it is simple. You will go to the police. You will say to them
that M. Kettering committed this crime."

"And if they do not believe me? If they ask for proof?" He was eyeing
her closely.

Mirelle laughed softly, and drew her orange-and-black wrap closer round
her.

"Send them to me, Monsieur le Comte," she said softly; "I will give
them the proof they want."

Upon that she was gone, an impetuous whirlwind, her errand accomplished.

The Comte looked after her, his eyebrows delicately raised.

"She is in a fury," he murmured. "What has happened now to upset her?
But she shows her hand too plainly. Does she really believe that Mr.
Kettering killed his wife? She would like me to believe it. She would
even like the police to believe it."

He smiled to himself. He had no intention whatsoever of going to the
police. He saw various other possibilities, to judge by his smile, an
agreeable vista of them.

Presently, however, his brow clouded. According to Mirelle, he was
suspected by the police. That might be true or it might not. An
angry woman of the type of the dancer was not likely to bother about
the strict veracity of her statements. On the other hand, she might
easily have obtained--inside information. In that case--his mouth set
grimly--in that case he must take certain precautions.

He went into the house and questioned Hippolyte closely once more as
to whether any strangers had been to the house. The valet was positive
in his assurances that this was not the case. The Comte went up to
his bedroom and crossed over to an old bureau that stood against the
wall. He let down the lid of this, and his delicate fingers sought for
a spring at the back of one of the pigeon-holes. A secret drawer flew
out; in it was a small brown paper package. The Comte took this out and
weighed it in his hand carefully for a minute or two. Raising his hand
to his head, with a slight grimace he pulled out a single hair. This he
placed on the lip of the drawer and shut it carefully. Still carrying
the small parcel in his hand, he went downstairs and out of the house
to the garage, where stood a scarlet two-seater car. Ten minutes later
he had taken the road for Monte Carlo.

He spent a few hours at the Casino, then sauntered out into the town.
Presently he re-entered the car and drove off in the direction of
Mentone. Earlier in the afternoon he had noticed an inconspicuous grey
car some little distance behind him. He noticed it again now. He smiled
to himself. The road was climbing steadily upwards. The Comte's foot
pressed hard on the accelerator. The little red car had been specially
built to the Comte's design, and had a far more powerful engine than
would have been suspected from its appearance. It shot ahead.

Presently he looked back and smiled; the grey car was following
behind. Smothered in dust, the little red car leaped along the road.
It was travelling now at a dangerous pace, but the Comte was a
first-class driver. Now they were going down hill, twisting and curving
unceasingly. Presently the car slackened speed, and finally came to
a standstill before a Bureau de Poste. The Comte jumped out, lifted
the lid of the tool chest, extracted the small brown paper parcel and
hurried into the post office. Two minutes later he was driving once
more in the direction of Mentone. When the grey car arrived there, the
Comte was drinking English five o'clock tea on the terrace of one of
the hotels.

Later, he drove back to Monte Carlo, dined there, and reached home once
more at eleven o'clock. Hippolyte came out to meet him with a disturbed
face.

"Ah! Monsieur le Comte has arrived. Monsieur le Comte did not telephone
me, by any chance?"

The Comte shook his head.

"And yet at three o'clock I received a summons from Monsieur le Comte,
to present myself to him at Nice, at the Negresco."

"Really," said the Comte; "and you went?"

"Certainly, Monsieur, but at the Negresco they knew nothing of Monsieur
le Comte. He had not been there."

"Ah," said the Comte, "doubtless at that hour Marie was out doing her
afternoon marketing?"

"That is so, Monsieur le Comte."

"Ah, well," said the Comte, "it is of no importance. A mistake."

He went upstairs, smiling to himself.

Once within his own room, he bolted his door and looked sharply round.
Everything seemed as usual. He opened various drawers and cupboards.
Then he nodded to himself. Things had been replaced almost exactly as
he had left them, but not quite. It was evident that a very thorough
search had been made.

He went over to the bureau and pressed the hidden spring. The drawer
flew open, but the hair was no longer where he had placed it. He nodded
his head several times.

"They are excellent, our French police," he murmured to
himself--"excellent. Nothing escapes them."




                     20. Katherine Makes a Friend


On the following morning Katherine and Lenox were sitting on the
terrace of the Villa Marguerite. Something in the nature of a
friendship was springing up between them, despite the difference in
age. But for Lenox, Katherine would have found life at the Villa
Marguerite quite intolerable. The Kettering case was the topic of the
moment. Lady Tamplin frankly exploited her guest's connection with the
affair for all it was worth. The most persistent rebuffs that Katherine
could administer quite failed to pierce Lady Tamplin's self-esteem.
Lenox adopted a detached attitude, seemingly amused at her mother's
manœuvres, and yet with a sympathetic understanding of Katherine's
feelings. The situation was not helped by Chubby, whose naïve delight
was unquenchable, and who introduced Katherine to all and sundry as:

"This is Miss Grey. You know that Blue Train business? She was in it up
to the ears! Had a long talk with Ruth Kettering a few hours before the
murder! Bit of luck for her, eh?"

A few remarks of this kind had provoked Katherine that morning to an
unusually tart rejoinder, and when they were alone together Lenox
observed in her slow drawl:

"Not used to exploitation, are you? You have a lot to learn, Katherine."

"I am sorry I lost my temper. I don't, as a rule."

"It is about time you learnt to blow off steam. Chubby is only an ass;
there is no harm in him. Mother, of course, is trying, but you can
lose your temper with her until Kingdom come, and it won't make any
impression. She will open large, sad blue eyes at you and not care a
bit."

Katherine made no reply to this filial observation, and Lenox presently
went on:

"I am rather like Chubby. I delight in a good murder, and
besides--well, knowing Derek makes a difference."

Katherine nodded.

"So you lunched with him yesterday," pursued Lenox reflectively. "Do
you like him, Katherine?"

Katherine considered for a minute or two.
"I don't know," she said very slowly.

"He is very attractive."

"Yes, he is attractive."

"What don't you like about him?"

Katherine did not reply to the question, or at any rate not directly.
"He spoke of his wife's death," she said. "He said he would not pretend
that it had been anything but a bit of most marvellous luck for him."

"And that shocked you, I suppose," said Lenox. She paused, and then
added in rather a queer tone of voice: "He likes you, Katherine."

"He gave me a very good lunch," said Katherine, smiling.

Lenox refused to be side-tracked.

"I saw it the night he came here," she said thoughtfully. "The way he
looked at you; and you are not his usual type--just the opposite. Well,
I suppose it is like religion--you get it at a certain age."

"Mademoiselle is wanted at the telephone," said Marie, appearing at the
window of the salon. "M. Hercule Poirot desires to speak with her."

"More blood and thunder. Go on, Katherine; go and dally with your
detective."

M. Hercule Poirot's voice came neat and precise in its intonation to
Katherine's ear.

"That is Mademoiselle Grey who speaks? _Bon._ Mademoiselle, I have a
word for you from M. Van Aldin, the father of Madame Kettering. He
wishes very much to speak with you, either at the Villa Marguerite or
at his hotel, whichever you prefer."

Katherine reflected for a moment, but she decided that for Van Aldin
to come to the Villa Marguerite would be both painful and unnecessary.
Lady Tamplin would have hailed his advent with far too much delight.
She never lost a chance of cultivating millionaires. She told Poirot
that she would much rather come to Nice.

"Excellent, Mademoiselle. I will call for you myself in an auto. Shall
we say in about three-quarters of an hour?"

Punctually to the moment Poirot appeared. Katherine was waiting for
him, and they drove off at once.

"Well, Mademoiselle, how goes it?"

She looked at his twinkling eyes, and was confirmed in her first
impression that there was something very attractive about M. Hercule
Poirot.

"This is our own Roman Policier, is it not?" said Poirot. "I made you
the promise that we should study it together. And me, I always keep my
promises."

"You are too kind," murmured Katherine.

"Ah, you mock yourself at me; but do you want to hear the developments
of the case, or do you not?"

Katherine admitted that she did, and Poirot proceeded to sketch for her
a thumbnail portrait of the Comte de la Roche.

"You think he killed her," said Katherine thoughtfully.

"That is the theory," said Poirot guardedly.

"Do you yourself believe that?"

"I did not say so. And you, Mademoiselle, what do you think?"

Katherine shook her head.

"How should I know? I don't know anything about those things, but I
should say that--"

"Yes," said Poirot encouragingly.

"Well--from what you say the Count does not sound the kind of man who
would actually kill anybody."

"Ah! Very good," cried Poirot, "you agree with me; that is just what I
have said." He looked at her sharply. "But tell me, you have met Mr.
Derek Kettering?"

"I met him at Lady Tamplin's, and I lunched with him yesterday."

"A _mauvais sujet_," said Poirot, shaking his head; "but _les
femmes_--they like that, eh?"

He twinkled at Katherine and she laughed.

"He is the kind of man one would notice anywhere," continued Poirot.
"Doubtless you observed him on the Blue Train?"

"Yes, I noticed him."

"In the restaurant car?"

"No. I didn't notice him at meals at all. I only saw him once--going
into his wife's compartment."

Poirot nodded. "A strange business," he murmured. "I believe you said
you were awake, Mademoiselle, and looked out of your window at Lyons?
You saw no tall dark man such as the Comte de la Roche leave the train?"

Katherine shook her head. "I don't think I saw any one at all," she
said. "There was a youngish lad in a cap and overcoat who got out, but
I don't think he was leaving the train, only walking up and down the
platform. There was a fat Frenchman with a beard, in pyjamas and an
overcoat, who wanted a cup of coffee. Otherwise, I think there were
only the train attendants."

Poirot nodded his head several times. "It is like this, you see," he
confided, "the Comte de la Roche has an alibi. An alibi, it is a very
pestilential thing, and always open to the gravest suspicion. But here
we are!"

They went straight up to Van Aldin's suite, where they found Knighton.
Poirot introduced him to Katherine. After a few commonplaces had been
exchanged, Knighton said, "I will tell Mr. Van Aldin that Miss Grey is
here."

He went through a second door into an adjoining room. There was a low
murmur of voices, and then Van Aldin came into the room and advanced
towards Katherine with outstretched hand, giving her at the same time a
shrewd and penetrating glance.

"I am pleased to meet you, Miss Grey," he said simply. "I have been
wanting very badly to hear what you can tell me about Ruth."

The quiet simplicity of the millionaire's manner appealed to Katherine
strongly. She felt herself in the presence of a very genuine grief, the
more real for its absence of outward sign.

He drew forward a chair.

"Sit here, will you, and just tell me all about it."

Poirot and Knighton retired discreetly into the other room, and
Katherine and Van Aldin were left alone together. She found no
difficulty in her task. Quite simply and naturally she related her
conversation with Ruth Kettering, word for word as nearly as she
could. He listened in silence, leaning back in his chair, with one hand
shading his eyes. When she had finished he said quietly:

"Thank you, my dear."

They both sat silent for a minute or two. Katherine felt that words of
sympathy would be out of place. When the millionaire spoke, it was in a
different tone:

"I am very grateful to you, Miss Grey. I think you did something to
ease my poor Ruth's mind in the last hours of her life. Now I want
to ask you something. You know--M. Poirot will have told you--about
the scoundrel that my poor girl had got herself mixed up with. He was
the man of whom she spoke to you--the man she was going to meet. In
your judgment do you think she might have changed her mind after her
conversation with you? Do you think she meant to go back on her word?"

"I can't honestly tell you. She had certainly come to some decision,
and seemed more cheerful in consequence of it."

"She gave you no idea where she intended to meet the skunk--whether in
Paris or at Hyères?"

Katherine shook her head.

"She said nothing as to that."

"Ah!" said Van Aldin thoughtfully, "and that is the important point.
Well, time will show."

He got up and opened the door of the adjoining room. Poirot and
Knighton came back.

Katherine declined the millionaire's invitation to lunch, and Knighton
went down with her and saw her into the waiting car. He returned to
find Poirot and Van Aldin deep in conversation.

"If we only knew," said the millionaire thoughtfully, "what decision
Ruth came to. It might have been any of half a dozen. She might have
meant to leave the train at Paris and cable to me. She may have meant
to have gone on to the south of France and have an explanation with the
Count there. We are in the dark--absolutely in the dark. But we have
the maid's word for it that she was both startled and dismayed at the
Count's appearance at the station in Paris. That was clearly not part
of the preconceived plan. You agree with me, Knighton?"

The secretary started. "I beg your pardon, Mr. Van Aldin. I was not
listening."

"Day-dreaming, eh?" said Van Aldin. "That's not like you. I believe
that girl has bowled you over."

Knighton blushed.

"She is a remarkably nice girl," said Van Aldin thoughtfully, "very
nice. Did you happen to notice her eyes?"

"Any man," said Knighton, "would be bound to notice her eyes."




                           21. At the Tennis


Several days had elapsed. Katherine had been for a walk by herself one
morning, and came back to find Lenox grinning at her expectantly.

"Your young man has been ringing you up, Katherine!"

"Who do you call my young man?"

"A new one--Rufus Van Aldin's secretary. You seem to have made rather
an impression there. You are becoming a serious breaker of hearts,
Katherine. First Derek Kettering, and now this young Knighton. The
funny thing is, that I remember him quite well. He was in Mother's War
Hospital that she ran out here. I was only a kid of about eight at the
time."

"Was he badly wounded?"

"Shot in the leg, if I remember rightly--rather a nasty business. I
think the doctors messed it up a bit. They said he wouldn't limp or
anything, but when he left here he was still completely dot and go one."

Lady Tamplin came out and joined them.

"Have you been telling Katherine about Major Knighton?" she asked.
"Such a dear fellow! Just at first I didn't remember him--one had so
many--but now it all comes back."

"He was a bit too unimportant to be remembered before," said Lenox.
"Now that he is a secretary to an American millionaire, it is a very
different matter."

"Darling!" said Lady Tamplin in her vague reproachful voice.

"What did Major Knighton ring up about?" inquired Katherine.

"He asked if you would like to go to the tennis this afternoon. If so,
he would call for you in a car. Mother and I accepted for you with
_empressement_. Whilst you dally with a millionaire's secretary, you
might give me a chance with the millionaire, Katherine. He is about
sixty, I suppose, so that he will be looking about for a nice sweet
young thing like me."

"I should like to meet Mr. Van Aldin," said Lady Tamplin earnestly;
"one has heard so much of him. Those fine rugged figures of the Western
world"--she broke off--"so fascinating," she murmured.

"Major Knighton was very particular to say it was Mr. Van Aldin's
invitation," said Lenox. "He said it so often that I began to smell a
rat. You and Knighton would make a very nice pair, Katherine. Bless
you, my children!"

Katherine laughed, and went upstairs to change her clothes.

Knighton arrived soon after lunch and endured manfully Lady Tamplin's
transports of recognition.

When they were driving together towards Cannes he remarked to
Katherine: "Lady Tamplin has changed wonderfully little."

"In manner or appearance?"

"Both. She must be, I suppose, well over forty, but she is a remarkably
beautiful woman still."

"She is," agreed Katherine.

"I am very glad that you could come to-day," went on Knighton. "M.
Poirot is going to be there also. What an extraordinary little man he
is. Do you know him well, Miss Grey?"

Katherine shook her head. "I met him on the train on the way here. I
was reading a detective novel, and I happened to say something about
such things not happening in real life. Of course, I had no idea of who
he was."

"He is a very remarkable person," said Knighton slowly, "and has done
some very remarkable things. He has a kind of genius for going to the
root of the matter, and right up to the end no one has any idea of
what he is really thinking. I remember I was staying at a house in
Yorkshire, and Lady Clanravon's jewels were stolen. It seemed at first
to be a simple robbery, but it completely baffled the local police. I
wanted them to call in Hercule Poirot, and said he was the only man who
could help them, but they pinned their faith to Scotland Yard."

"And what happened?" said Katherine curiously.

"The jewels were never recovered," said Knighton drily.

"You really do believe in him?"

"I do indeed. The Comte de la Roche is a pretty wily customer. He
has wriggled out of most things. But I think he has met his match in
Hercule Poirot."

"The Comte de la Roche," said Katherine thoughtfully; "so you really
think he did it?"

"Of course." Knighton looked at her in astonishment. "Don't you?"

"Oh yes," said Katherine hastily; "that is, I mean, if it was not just
an ordinary train robbery."

"It might be, of course," agreed the other, "but it seems to me that
the Comte de la Roche fits into this business particularly well."

"And yet he has an alibi."

"Oh, alibis!" Knighton laughed, his face broke into his attractive
boyish smile.

"You confess that you read detective stories, Miss Grey. You must know
that any one who has a perfect alibi is always open to grave suspicion."

"Do you think that real life is like that?" asked Katherine, smiling.

"Why not? Fiction is founded on fact."

"But is rather superior to it," suggested Katherine.

"Perhaps. Anyway, if I was a criminal I should not like to have Hercule
Poirot on my track."

"No more should I," said Katherine, and laughed.

They were met on arrival by Poirot. As the day was warm he was attired
in a white duck suit, with a white camellia in his buttonhole.

"_Bon jour_, Mademoiselle," said Poirot. "I look very English, do I
not?"

"You look wonderful," said Katherine tactfully.

"You mock yourself at me," said Poirot genially, "but no matter. Papa
Poirot, he always laughs the last."

"Where is Mr. Van Aldin?" asked Knighton.

"He will meet us at our seats. To tell you the truth, my friend, he
is not too well pleased with me. Oh, those Americans--the repose, the
calm, they know it not! Mr. Van Aldin, he would that I fly myself in
the pursuit of criminals through all the byways of Nice."

"I should have thought myself that it would not have been a bad plan,"
observed Knighton.

"You are wrong," said Poirot; "in these matters one needs not energy
but finesse. At the tennis one meets every one. That is so important.
Ah, there is Mr. Kettering."

Derek came abruptly up to them. He looked reckless and angry, as though
something had arisen to upset him. He and Knighton greeted each other
with some frigidity. Poirot alone seemed unconscious of any sense of
strain, and chatted pleasantly in a laudable attempt to put every one
at his ease. He paid little compliments.

"It is amazing, M. Kettering, how well you speak the French," he
observed--"so well that you could be taken for a Frenchman if you
chose. That is a very rare accomplishment among Englishmen."

"I wish I did," said Katherine. "I am only too well aware that my
French is of a painfully British order."

They reached their seats and sat down, and almost immediately Knighton
perceived his employer signaling to him from the other end of the
court, and went off to speak to him.

"Me, I approve of that young man," said Poirot, sending a beaming smile
after the departing secretary; "and you, Mademoiselle?"

"I like him very much."

"And you, M. Kettering?"

Some quick rejoinder was springing to Derek's lips, but he checked it
as though something in the little Belgian's twinkling eyes had made him
suddenly alert. He spoke carefully, choosing his words.

"Knighton is a very good fellow," he said.

Just for a moment Katherine fancied that Poirot looked disappointed.

"He is a great admirer of yours, M. Poirot," she said, and she related
some of the things that Knighton had said. It amused her to see the
little man plume himself like a bird, thrusting out his chest, and
assuming an air of mock modesty that would have deceived no one.

"That reminds me, Mademoiselle," he said suddenly, "I have a little
matter of business I have to speak to you about. When you were sitting
talking to that poor lady in the train, I think you must have dropped a
cigarette case."

Katherine looked rather astonished. "I don't think so," she said.
Poirot drew from his pocket a cigarette case of soft blue leather, with
the initial "K" on it in gold.

"No, that is not mine," Katherine said.

"Ah, a thousand apologies. It was doubtless Madame's own. 'K,' of
course, stands for Kettering. We were doubtful, because she had another
cigarette case in her bag, and it seemed odd that she should have two."
He turned to Derek suddenly. "You do not know, I suppose, whether this
was your wife's case or not?"

Derek seemed momentarily taken aback. He stammered a little in his
reply: "I--I don't know. I suppose so."

"It is not yours by any chance?"

"Certainly not. If it were mine it would hardly have been in my wife's
possession."

Poirot looked more ingenuous and childlike than ever.

"I thought perhaps you might have dropped it when you were in your
wife's compartment," he explained guilelessly.

"I never was there. I have already told the police that a dozen times."

"A thousand pardons," said Poirot, with his most apologetic air. "It
was Mademoiselle here who mentioned having seen you going in."

He stopped with an air of embarrassment.

Katherine looked at Derek. His face had gone rather white, but perhaps
that was her fancy. His laugh, when it came, was natural enough.

"You made a mistake, Miss Grey," he said easily. "From what the police
have told me, I gather that my own compartment was only a door or two
away from that of my wife's--though I never suspected the fact at the
time. You must have seen me going into my own compartment." He got up
quickly as he saw Van Aldin and Knighton approaching.

"I'm going to leave you now," he announced. "I can't stand my
father-in-law at any price."

Van Aldin greeted Katherine very courteously, but was clearly in a bad
humour.

"You seem fond of watching tennis, M. Poirot," he growled.

"It is a pleasure to me, yes," cried Poirot placidly.

"It is as well you are in France," said Van Aldin. "We are made of
sterner stuff in the States. Business comes before pleasure there."

Poirot did not take offence; indeed, he smiled gently and confidingly
at the irate millionaire.

"Do not enrage yourself, I beg of you. Every one has his own methods.
Me, I have always found it a delightful and pleasing idea to combine
business and pleasure together."

He glanced at the other two. They were deep in conversation, absorbed
in each other. Poirot nodded his head in satisfaction, and then leant
towards the millionaire, lowering his voice as he did so.

"It is not only for pleasure that I am here, M. Van Aldin. Observe just
opposite us that tall old man--the one with the yellow face and the
venerable beard."

"Well, what of him?"

"That," Poirot said, "is M. Papopolous."

"A Greek, eh?"

"As you say--a Greek. He is a dealer in antiques of world-wide
reputation. He has a small shop in Paris, and he is suspected by the
police of being something more."

"What?"

"A receiver of stolen goods, especially jewels. There is nothing as to
the re-cutting and re-setting of gems that he does not know. He deals
with the highest in Europe and with the lowest of the riff-raff of the
underworld."

Van Aldin was looking at Poirot with suddenly awakened attention.

"Well?" he demanded, a new note in his voice.

"I ask myself," said Poirot, "I, Hercule Poirot"--he thumped himself
dramatically on the chest--"ask myself _why is M. Papopolous suddenly
come to Nice?_"

Van Aldin was impressed. For a moment he had doubted Poirot and
suspected the little man of being past his job, a _poseur_ only. Now,
in a moment, he switched back to his original opinion. He looked
straight at the little detective.

"I must apologize to you, M. Poirot."

Poirot waved the apology aside with an extravagant gesture.

"Bah!" he cried, "all that is of no importance. Now listen, M. Van
Aldin; I have news for you."

The millionaire looked sharply at him, all his interest aroused.

Poirot nodded.

"It is as I say. You will be interested. As you know, M. Van Aldin, the
Comte de la Roche has been under surveillance ever since his interview
with the Juge d'Instruction. The day after that, during his absence,
the Villa Marina was searched by the police."

"Well," said Van Aldin, "did they find anything? I bet they didn't."

Poirot made him a little bow.

"Your acumen is not at fault, M. Van Aldin. They found nothing of an
incriminating nature. It was not to be expected that they would. The
Comte de la Roche, as your expressive idiom has it, was not born on
the preceding day. He is an astute gentleman with great experience."

"Well, go on," growled Van Aldin.

"It may be, of course, that the Comte had nothing of a compromising
nature to conceal. But we must not neglect the possibility. If, then,
he has something to conceal, where is it? Not in his house--the police
searched thoroughly. Not on his person, for he knows that he is liable
to arrest at any minute. There remains--his car. As I say, he was under
surveillance. He was followed on that day to Monte Carlo. From there he
went by road to Mentone, driving himself. His car is a very powerful
one, it outdistanced his pursuers, and for about a quarter of an hour
they completely lost sight of him."

"And during that time you think he concealed something by the
roadside?" asked Van Aldin, keenly interested.

"By the roadside, no. _Ça n'est pas pratique._ But listen now--me, I
have made a little suggestion to M. Carrège. He is graciously pleased
to approve of it. In each Bureau de Poste in the neighbourhood it has
been seen to that there is some one who knows the Comte de la Roche by
sight. Because, you see, Monsieur, the best way of hiding a thing is by
sending it away by the post."

"Well?" demanded Van Aldin; his face was keenly alight with interest
and expectation.

"Well--_voilà!_" With a dramatic flourish Poirot drew out from his
pocket a loosely wrapped brown paper package from which the string had
been removed.

"During that quarter of an hour's interval, our good gentleman mailed
this."

"The address?" asked the other sharply.

Poirot nodded his head.

"Might have told us something, but unfortunately it does not. The
package was addressed to one of these little newspaper shops in Paris
where letters and parcels are kept until called for on payment of a
small commission."

"Yes, but what is inside?" demanded Van Aldin impatiently.

Poirot unwrapped the brown paper and disclosed a square cardboard box.
He looked round him.

"It is a good moment," he said quietly. "All eyes are on the tennis.
Look, Monsieur!"

He lifted the lid of the box for the fraction of a second. An
exclamation of utter astonishment came from the millionaire. His face
turned as white as chalk.

"My God!" he breathed, "the rubies."

He sat for a minute as though dazed. Poirot restored the box to his
pocket and beamed placidly. Then suddenly the millionaire seemed to
come out of his trance; he leaned across to Poirot and wrung his hand
so heartily that the little man winced with pain.

"This is great," said Van Aldin. "Great! You are the goods, M. Poirot.
Once and for all, you are the goods."

"It is nothing," said Poirot modestly. "Order, method, being prepared
for eventualities beforehand--that is all there is to it."

"And now, I suppose, the Comte de la Roche has been arrested?"
continued Van Aldin eagerly.

"No," said Poirot.

A look of utter astonishment came over Van Aldin's face.

"But why? What more do you want?"

"The Comte's alibi is still unshaken."

"But that is nonsense."

"Yes," said Poirot; "I rather think it is nonsense, but unfortunately
we have to prove it so."

"In the meantime he will slip through your fingers."

Poirot shook his head very energetically.

"No," he said, "he will not do that. The one thing the Comte cannot
afford to sacrifice is his social position. At all costs he must stop
and brazen it out."

Van Aldin was still dissatisfied.

"But I don't see--"

Poirot raised a hand. "Grant me a little moment, Monsieur. Me, I have a
little idea. Many people have mocked themselves at the little ideas of
Hercule Poirot--and they have been wrong."

"Well," said Van Aldin, "go ahead. What is this little idea?"

Poirot paused for a moment and then he said:

"I will call upon you at your hotel at eleven o'clock to-morrow
morning. Until then, say nothing to any one."




                     22. M. Papopolous Breakfasts


M. Papopolous was at breakfast. Opposite him sat his daughter, Zia.

There was a knock at the sitting-room door, and a chasseur entered with
a card which he brought to Mr. Papopolous. The latter scrutinized it,
raised his eyebrows, and passed it over to his daughter.

"Ah!" said M. Papopolous, scratching his left ear thoughtfully,
"Hercule Poirot. I wonder now."

Father and daughter looked at each other.

"I saw him yesterday at the tennis," said M. Papopolous. "Zia, I hardly
like this."

"He was very useful to you once," his daughter reminded him.

"That is true," acknowledged M. Papopolous; "also he has retired from
active work, so I hear."

These interchanges between father and daughter had passed in their own
language. Now M. Papopolous turned to the chasseur and said in French:

"_Faites monter ce monsieur._"

A few minutes later Hercule Poirot, exquisitely attired, and swinging a
cane with a jaunty air, entered the room.

"My dear M. Papopolous."

There was a sympathetic silence, and then Poirot spoke in a detached
manner.

"Let us arrange our facts with order and precision. According to our
present theory, this is how they run. The Comte de la Roche knows of
your purchase of these jewels. By an easy stratagem he induces Madame
Kettering to bring the stones with her. He, then, is the man Mason saw
in the train at Paris."

The other three nodded in agreement.

"Madame is surprised to see him, but she deals with the situation
promptly. Mason is got out of the way; a dinner basket is ordered.
We know from the conductor that he made up the berth for the first
compartment, but he did not go into the second compartment, and that
a man could quite well have been concealed from him. So far the Comte
could have been hidden to a marvel. No one knows of his presence on the
train except Madame; he has been careful that the maid did not see his
face. All that she could say is that he was tall and dark. It is all
most conveniently vague. They are alone--and the train rushes through
the night. There would be no outcry, no struggle, for the man is, so
she thinks, her lover."

He turned gently to Van Aldin.

"Death, Monsieur, must have been almost instantaneous. We will pass
over that quickly. The Comte takes the jewel-case which lies ready to
his hand. Shortly afterwards the train draws into Lyons."

M. Carrège nodded his approval.

"Precisely. The conductor without descends. It would be easy for our
man to leave the train unseen; it would be easy to catch a train back
to Paris or anywhere he pleases. And the crime would be put down as an
ordinary train robbery. But for the letter found in Madame's bag, the
Comte would not have been mentioned."

"It was an oversight on his part not to search that bag," declared the
Commissary.

"Without doubt he thought she had destroyed that letter. It was--pardon
me, Monsieur--it was an indiscretion of the first water to keep it."

"And yet," murmured Poirot, "it was an indiscretion the Comte might
have foreseen."

"You mean?"

"I mean we are all agreed on one point, and that is that the Comte de
la Roche knows one subject _à fond_: Women. How was it that, knowing
women as he does, he did not foresee that Madame would have kept that
letter?"

"Yes--yes," said the Examining Magistrate doubtfully, "there is
something in what you say. But at such times, you understand, a man
is not master of himself. He does not reason calmly. _Mon Dieu!_" he
added, with feeling, "if our criminals kept their heads and acted with
intelligence, how should we capture them?"

Poirot smiled to himself.

"It seems to me a clear case," said the other, "but a difficult one
to prove. The Comte is a slippery customer, and unless the maid can
identify him--"

"Which is most unlikely," said Poirot.

"True, true." The Examining Magistrate rubbed his chin. "It is going to
be difficult."

"If he did indeed commit the crime--" began Poirot. M. Caux interrupted.

"If--you say _if_?"

"Yes, Monsieur le Juge, I say _if_."

The other looked at him sharply. "You are right," he said at last, "we
go too fast. It is possible that the Comte may have an alibi. Then we
should look foolish."

"_Ah, ça par exemple_," replied Poirot, "that is of no importance
whatever. Naturally, if he committed the crime he will have an alibi. A
man with the Comte's experience does not neglect to take precautions.
No, I said _if_ for a very different reason."

"And what was that?"

Poirot wagged an emphatic forefinger. "The psychology."

"Eh?" said the Commissary.

"The psychology is at fault. The Comte is a scoundrel--yes. The Comte
is a swindler--yes. The Comte preys upon women--yes. He proposes to
steal Madame's jewels--again yes. Is he the kind of man to commit
murder? I say _no_! A man of the type of the Comte is always a coward;
he takes no risks. He plays the safe, the mean, what the English call
the low-down game; but murder, a hundred times no!" He shook his head
in a dissatisfied manner.

The Examining Magistrate, however, did not seem disposed to agree with
him.

"The day always comes when such gentry lose their heads and go too
far," he observed sagely. "Doubtless that is the case here. Without
wishing to disagree with you, M. Poirot--"

"It was only an opinion," Poirot hastened to explain. "The case is, of
course, in your hands, and you will do what seems fit to you."

"I am satisfied in my own mind that the Comte de la Roche is the man we
need to get hold of," said M. Carrège. "You agree with me, Monsieur le
Commissaire?"

"Perfectly."

"And you, M. Van Aldin?"

"Yes," said the millionaire. "Yes; the man is a thorough-paced villain,
no doubt about it."

"It will be difficult to lay hands on him, I am afraid," said the
Magistrate, "but we will do our best. Telegraphed instructions shall go
out at once."

"Permit me to assist you," said Poirot. "There need be no difficulty."

"Eh?"

The others stared at him. The little man smiled beamingly back at them.

"It is my business to know things," he explained. "The Comte is a man
of intelligence. He is at present at a villa he has leased, the Villa
Marina at Antibes."




                     16. Poirot Discusses the Case


Everybody looked respectfully at Poirot. Undoubtedly the little man had
scored heavily. The Commissary laughed--on a rather hollow note.

"You teach us all our business," he cried. "M. Poirot knows more than
the police."

Poirot gazed complacently at the ceiling, adopting a mock-modest air.

"What will you; it is my little hobby," he murmured, "to know things.
Naturally I have the time to indulge it. I am not overburdened with
affairs."

"Ah!" said the Commissary shaking his head portentously. "As for me--"

He made an exaggerated gesture to represent the cares that lay on his
shoulders.

Poirot turned suddenly to Van Aldin.

"You agree, Monsieur, with this view? You feel certain that the Comte
de la Roche is the murderer?"

"Why, it would seem so--yes, certainly."

Something guarded in the answer made the Examining Magistrate look at
the American curiously. Van Aldin seemed aware of his scrutiny and made
an effort as though to shake off some preoccupation.

"What about my son-in-law?" he asked. "You have acquainted him with the
news? He is in Nice, I understand."

"Certainly, Monsieur." The Commissary hesitated, and then murmured very
discreetly: "You are doubtless aware, M. Van Aldin, that M. Kettering
was also one of the passengers on the Blue Train that night?"

The millionaire nodded.

"Heard it just before I left London," he vouchsafed laconically.

"He tells us," continued the Commissary, "that he had no idea his wife
was travelling on the train."

"I bet he hadn't," said Van Aldin grimly. "It would have been rather a
nasty shock to him if he'd come across her on it."

The three men looked at him questioningly.

"I'm not going to mince matters," said Van Aldin savagely. "No one
knows what my poor girl has had to put up with. Derek Kettering wasn't
alone. He had a lady with him."

"Ah?"

"Mirelle--the dancer."

M. Carrège and the Commissary looked at each other and nodded as though
confirming some previous conversation. M. Carrège leaned back in his
chair, joined his hands, and fixed his eyes on the ceiling.

"Ah!" he murmured again. "One wondered." He coughed. "One has heard
rumours."

"The lady," said M. Caux, "is very notorious."

"And also," murmured Poirot softly, "very expensive."

Van Aldin had gone very red in the face. He leant forward and hit the
table a bang with his fist.

"See here," he cried, "my son-in-law is a damned scoundrel!"

He glared at them, looking from one face to another.

"Oh, I know," he went on. "Good looks and a charming, easy manner.
It took me in once upon a time. I suppose he pretended to be
broken-hearted when you broke the news to him--that is, if he didn't
know it already."

"Oh, it came as a complete surprise to him. He was overwhelmed."

"Darned young hypocrite," said Van Aldin. "Simulated great grief, I
suppose?"

"N--no," said the Commissary cautiously. "I would not quite say
that--eh, M. Carrège?"

The Magistrate brought the tips of his fingers together, and half
closed his eyes.

"Shock, bewilderment, horror--these things, yes," he declared
judicially. "Great sorrow--no--I should not say that."

Hercule Poirot spoke once more.

"Permit me to ask, M. Van Aldin, does M. Kettering benefit by the death
of his wife?"

"He benefits to the tune of a couple of millions," said Van Aldin.

"Dollars?"

"Pounds. I settled that sum on Ruth absolutely on her marriage. She
made no will and leaves no children, so the money will go to her
husband."

"Whom she was on the point of divorcing," murmured Poirot. "Ah,
yes--_précisément_."

The Commissary turned and looked sharply at him.

"Do you mean--" he began.

"I mean nothing," said Poirot. "I arrange the facts, that is all."

Van Aldin stared at him with awakening interest.

The little man rose to his feet.

"I do not think I can be of any further service to you, M. le Juge," he
said politely, bowing to M. Carrège. "You will keep me informed of the
course of events? It will be a kindness."

"But certainly--most certainly."

Van Aldin rose also.

"You don't want me any more at present?"

"No, Monsieur; we have all the information we need for the moment."

"Then I will walk a little way with M. Poirot. That is, if he does not
object?"

"Enchanted, Monsieur," said the little man, with a bow.

Van Aldin lighted a large cigar, having first offered one to Poirot,
who declined it and lit one of his own tiny cigarettes. A man of great
strength of character, Van Aldin already appeared to be his everyday,
normal self once more. After strolling along for a minute or two in
silence, the millionaire spoke:

"I take it, M. Poirot, that you no longer exercise your profession?"

"That is so, Monsieur. I enjoy the world."

"Yet you are assisting the police in this affair?"

"Monsieur, if a doctor walks along the street and an accident happens,
does he say, 'I have retired from my profession, I will continue my
walk,' when there is some one bleeding to death at his feet? If I
had been already in Nice, and the police had sent to me and asked me
to assist them, I should have refused. But this affair, the good God
thrust it upon me."

"You were on the spot," said Van Aldin thoughtfully. "You examined the
compartment, did you not?"

Poirot nodded.

"Doubtless you found things that were, shall we say, suggestive to you?"

"Perhaps," said Poirot.

"I hope you see what I am leading up to?" said Van Aldin. "It seems to
me that the case against this Comte de la Roche is perfectly clear, but
I am not a fool. I have been watching you for this last hour or so, and
I realize that for some reason of your own you don't agree with that
theory?"

Poirot shrugged his shoulders.

"I may be wrong."

"So we come to the favour I want to ask you. Will you act in this
matter for me?"

"For you personally?"

"That was my meaning."

Poirot was silent for a moment or two. Then he said:

"You realize what you are asking?"

"I guess so," said Van Aldin.

"Very well," said Poirot. "I accept. But in that case, I must have
frank answers to my questions."

"Why, certainly. That is understood."

Poirot's manner changed. He became suddenly brusque and business-like.

"This question of a divorce," he said. "It was you who advised your
daughter to bring the suit?"

"Yes."

"When?"

"About ten days ago. I had had a letter from her complaining of her
husband's behaviour, and I put it to her very strongly that divorce was
the only remedy."

"In what way did she complain of his behaviour?"

"He was being seen about with a _very_ notorious lady--the one we have
been speaking of--Mirelle."

"The dancer. Ah-ha! And Madame Kettering objected? Was she very devoted
to her husband?"

"I would not say that," said Van Aldin, hesitating a little.

"It was not her heart that suffered, it was her pride--is that what you
would say?"

"Yes, I suppose you might put it like that."

"I gather that the marriage had not been a happy one from the
beginning?"

"Derek Kettering is rotten to the core," said Van Aldin. "He is
incapable of making any woman happy."

"He is, as you say in England, a bad lot. That is right, is it not?"

Van Aldin nodded.

"_Très bien!_ You advise Madame to seek a divorce, she agrees; you
consult your solicitors. When does M. Kettering get news of what is in
the wind?"

"I sent for him myself, and explained the course of action I proposed
to take."

"And what did he say?" murmured Poirot softly.

Van Aldin's face darkened at the remembrance.

"He was infernally impudent."

"Excuse the question, Monsieur, but did he refer to the Comte de la
Roche?"

"Not by name," growled the other unwillingly, "but he showed himself
cognizant of the affair."

"What, if I may ask, was M. Kettering's financial position at the time?"

"How do you suppose I should know that?" asked Van Aldin, after a very
brief hesitation.

"It seemed likely to me that you would inform yourself on that point."

"Well--you are quite right, I did. I discovered that Kettering was on
the rocks."

"And now he has inherited two million pounds! _La vie_--it is a strange
thing, is it not?"

Van Aldin looked at him sharply.

"What do you mean?"

"I moralize," said Poirot. "I reflect, I speak the philosophy. But to
return to where we were. Surely M. Kettering did not propose to allow
himself to be divorced without making a fight for it?"

Van Aldin did not answer for a minute or two, then he said:

"I don't exactly know what his intentions were."

"Did you hold any further communications with him?"

Again a slight pause, then Van Aldin said:

"No."

Poirot stopped dead, took off his hat, and held out his hand.

"I must wish you good-day, Monsieur. I can do nothing for you."

"What are you getting at?" demanded Van Aldin angrily.

"If you do not tell me the truth, I can do nothing."

"I don't know what you mean."

"I think you do. You may rest assured, M. Van Aldin, that I know how to
be discreet."

"Very well, then," said the millionaire. "I'll admit that I was not
speaking the truth just now. I _did_ have further communication with my
son-in-law."

"Yes?"

"To be exact, I sent my secretary, Major Knighton, to see him, with
instructions to offer him the sum of one hundred thousand pounds in
cash if the divorce went through undefended."

"A pretty sum of money," said Poirot appreciatively; "and the answer of
Monsieur your son-in-law?"

"He sent back word that I could go to hell," replied the millionaire
succinctly.

"Ah!" said Poirot.

He betrayed no emotion of any kind. At the moment he was engaged in
methodically recording facts.

"Monsieur Kettering has told the police that he neither saw nor spoke
to his wife on the journey from England. Are you inclined to believe
that statement, Monsieur?"

"Yes, I am," said Van Aldin. "He would take particular pains to keep
out of her way, I should say."

"Why?"

"Because he had got that woman with him."

"Mirelle?"

"Yes."

"How did you come to know that fact?"

"A man of mine, whom I had put on to watch him, reported to me that
they had both left by that train."

"I see," said Poirot. "In that case, as you said before, he would not
be likely to attempt to hold any communication with Madame Kettering."

The little man fell silent for some time. Van Aldin did not interrupt
his meditation.




                     17. An Aristocratic Gentleman


"You have been to the Riviera before, Georges?" said Poirot to his
valet the following morning.

George was an intensely English, rather wooden-faced individual.

"Yes, sir. I was here two years ago when I was in the service of Lord
Edward Frampton."

"And to-day," murmured his master, "you are here with Hercule Poirot.
How one mounts in the world!"

The valet made no reply to this observation. After a suitable pause he
asked:

"The brown lounge suit, sir? The wind is somewhat chilly to-day."

"There is a grease spot on the waistcoat," objected Poirot. "A
_morceau_ of _filet de sole à la Jeannette_ alighted there when I was
lunching at the Ritz last Tuesday."

"There is no spot there now, sir," said George reproachfully. "I have
removed it."

"_Très bien!_" said Poirot. "I am pleased with you, Georges."

"Thank you, sir."

There was a pause, and then Poirot murmured dreamily:

"Supposing, my good Georges, that you had been born in the same social
sphere as your late master, Lord Edward Frampton--that, penniless
yourself, you had married an extremely wealthy wife, but that that wife
proposed to divorce you, with excellent reasons, what would you do
about it?"

"I should endeavour, sir," replied George, "to make her change her
mind."

"By peaceful or by forcible methods?"

George looked shocked.

"You will excuse me, sir," he said, "but a gentleman of the aristocracy
would not behave like a Whitechapel coster. He would not do anything
low."

"Would he not, Georges? I wonder now. Well, perhaps you are right."

There was a knock on the door. George went to it and opened it a
discreet inch or two. A low murmured colloquy went on, and then the
valet returned to Poirot.

"A note, sir."

Poirot took it. It was from M. Caux, the Commissary of Police.

"We are about to interrogate the Comte de la Roche. The Juge
d'Instruction begs that you will be present."

"Quickly, my suit, Georges! I must hasten myself."

A quarter of an hour later, spick and span in his brown suit, Poirot
entered the Examining Magistrate's room. M. Caux was already there, and
both he and M. Carrège greeted Poirot with polite _empressement_.

"The affair is somewhat discouraging," murmured M. Caux.

"It appears that the Comte arrived in Nice the day before the murder."

"If that is true, it will settle your affair nicely for you," responded
Poirot.

M. Carrège cleared his throat.

"We must not accept this alibi without very cautious inquiry," he
declared. He struck the bell upon the table with his hand.

In another minute a tall dark man, exquisitely dressed, with a
somewhat haughty cast of countenance, entered the room. So very
aristocratic-looking was the Count, that it would have seemed
sheer heresy even to whisper that his father had been an obscure
corn-chandler in Nantes--which, as a matter of fact, was the case.
Looking at him, one would have been prepared to swear that innumerable
ancestors of his must have perished by the guillotine in the French
Revolution.

"I am here, gentlemen," said the Count haughtily. "May I ask why you
wish to see me?"

"Pray be seated, Monsieur le Comte," said the Examining Magistrate
politely. "It is the affair of the death of Madame Kettering that we
are investigating."

"The death of Madame Kettering? I do not understand."

"You were--ahem!--acquainted with the lady, I believe, Monsieur le
Comte?"

"Certainly I was acquainted with her. What has that to do with the
matter?"

Sticking an eyeglass in his eye, he looked coldly round the room, his
glance resting longest on Poirot, who was gazing at him with a kind of
simple, innocent admiration which was most pleasing to the Count's
vanity. M. Carrège leaned back in his chair and cleared his throat.

"You do not perhaps know, Monsieur le Comte"--he paused--"that Madame
Kettering was murdered?"

"Murdered? _Mon Dieu_, how terrible!"

The surprise and the sorrow were excellently done--so well done,
indeed, as to seem wholly natural.

"Madame Kettering was strangled between Paris and Lyons," continued M.
Carrège, "and her jewels were stolen."

"It is iniquitous!" cried the Count warmly; "the police should do
something about these train bandits. Nowadays no one is safe."

"In Madame's handbag," continued the Judge, "we found a letter to her
from you. She had, it seemed, arranged to meet you?"

The Count shrugged his shoulders and spread out his hands.

"Of what use are concealments," he said frankly. "We are all men of the
world. Privately and between ourselves, I admit the affair."

"You met her in Paris and travelled down with her, I believe?" said M.
Carrège.

"That was the original arrangement, but by Madame's wish it was
changed. I was to meet her at Hyères."

"You did not meet her on the train at the Gare de Lyon on the evening
of the 14th?"

"On the contrary, I arrived in Nice on the morning of that day, so what
you suggest is impossible."

"Quite so, quite so," said M. Carrège. "As a matter of form, you would
perhaps give me an account of your movements during the evening and
night of the 14th."

The Count reflected for a minute.

"I dined in Monte Carlo at the Café de Paris. Afterwards I went to the
Le Sporting. I won a few thousand francs," he shrugged his shoulders.
"I returned home at perhaps one o'clock."

"Pardon me, Monsieur, but how did you return home?"

"In my own two-seater car."

"No one was with you?"

"No one."

"You could produce witnesses in support of this statement?"

"Doubtless many of my friends saw me there that evening. I dined alone."

"Your servant admitted you on your return to your villa?"

"I let myself in with my own latch-key."

"Ah!" murmured the Magistrate.

Again he struck the bell on the table with his hand. The door opened,
and a messenger appeared.

"Bring in the maid, Mason," said M. Carrège.

"Very good, Monsieur le Juge."

Ada Mason was brought in.

"Will you be so good, Mademoiselle, as to look at this gentleman.
To the best of your ability was it he who entered your mistress's
compartment in Paris?"

The woman looked long and searchingly at the Count, who was, Poirot
fancied, rather uneasy under this scrutiny.

"I could not say, sir, I am sure," said Mason at last. "It might be and
again it might not. Seeing as how I only saw his back, it's hard to
say. I rather think it _was_ the gentleman."

"But you are not sure?"

"No--o," said Mason unwillingly; "n--no, I am not sure."

"You have seen this gentleman before in Curzon Street?"

Mason shook her head.

"I should not be likely to see any visitors that come to Curzon
Street," she explained, "unless they were staying in the house."

"Very well, that will do," said the Examining Magistrate sharply.

Evidently he was disappointed.

"One moment," said Poirot. "There is a question I would like to put to
Mademoiselle, if I may?"

"Certainly, M. Poirot--certainly, by all means."

Poirot addressed himself to the maid.

"What happened to the tickets?"

"The tickets, sir?"

"Yes; the tickets from London to Nice. Did you or your mistress have
them?"

"The mistress had her own Pullman ticket, sir; the others were in my
charge."

"What happened to them?"

"I gave them to the conductor on the French train, sir; he said it was
usual. I hope I did right, sir?"

"Oh, quite right, quite right. A mere matter of detail."

Both M. Caux and the Examining Magistrate looked at him curiously.
Mason stood uncertainly for a minute or two, and then the Magistrate
gave her a brief nod of dismissal, and she went out. Poirot scribbled
something on a scrap of paper and handed it across to M. Carrège. The
latter read it and his brow cleared.

"Well, gentlemen," demanded the Count haughtily, "am I to be detained
further?"

"Assuredly not, assuredly not," M. Carrège hastened to say, with a
great deal of amiability. "Everything is now cleared up as regards your
own position in this affair. Naturally, in view of Madame's letter, we
were bound to question you."

The Count rose, picked up his handsome stick from the corner, and, with
rather a curt bow, left the room.

"And that is that," said M. Carrège. "You were quite right, M.
Poirot--much better to let him feel he is not suspected. Two of my men
will shadow him night and day, and at the same time we will go into the
question of the alibi. It seems to me rather--er--a fluid one."

"Possibly," agreed Poirot thoughtfully.

"I asked M. Kettering to come here this morning," continued the
Magistrate, "though really I doubt if we have much to ask him, but
there are one or two suspicious circumstances--" He paused, rubbing his
nose.

"Such as?" asked Poirot.

"Well"--the Magistrate coughed--"this lady with whom he is said to be
travelling--Mademoiselle Mirelle. She is staying at one hotel and he at
another. That strikes me--er--as rather odd."

"It looks," said M. Caux, "as though they were being careful."

"Exactly," said M. Carrège triumphantly; "and what should they have to
be careful about?"

"An excess of caution is suspicious, eh?" said Poirot.

"_Précisément._"

"We might, I think," murmured Poirot, "ask M. Kettering one or two
questions."

The Magistrate gave instructions. A moment or two later, Derek
Kettering, debonair as ever, entered the room.

"Good morning, Monsieur," said the Judge politely.

"Good morning," said Derek Kettering curtly. "You sent for me. Has
anything fresh turned up?"

"Pray sit down, Monsieur."

Derek took a seat and flung his hat and stick on the table.

"Well?" he asked impatiently.

"We have, so far, no fresh data," said M. Carrège cautiously.

"That's very interesting," said Derek drily. "Did you send for me here
in order to tell me that?"

"We naturally thought, Monsieur, that you would like to be informed of
the progress of the case," said the Magistrate severely.

"Even if the progress was non-existent."

"We also wished to ask you a few questions."

"Ask away."

"You are quite sure that you neither saw nor spoke with your wife on
the train?"

"I've answered that already. I did not."

"You had, no doubt, your reasons."

Derek stared at him suspiciously.

"I--did--not--know--she--was--on--the--train," he explained, spacing
his words elaborately, as though to some one dull of intellect.

"That is what you say, yes," murmured M. Carrège. A frown suffused
Derek's face.

"I should like to know what you're driving at. Do you know what I
think, M. Carrège?"

"What do you think, Monsieur?"

"I think the French police are vastly overrated. Surely you must have
some data as to these gangs of train robbers. It's outrageous that
such a thing could happen on a _train de luxe_ like that, and that the
French police should be helpless to deal with the matter."

"We are dealing with it, Monsieur, never fear."

"Madame Kettering, I understand, did not leave a will," interposed
Poirot suddenly. His fingertips were joined together, and he was
looking intently at the ceiling.

"I don't think she ever made one," said Kettering. "Why?"

"It is a very pretty little fortune that you inherit there," said
Poirot--"a very pretty little fortune."

Although his eyes were still on the ceiling, he managed to see the dark
flush that rose to Derek Kettering's face.

"What do you mean, and who are you?"

Poirot gently uncrossed his knees, withdrew his gaze from the ceiling,
and looked the young man full in the face.

"My name is Hercule Poirot," he said quietly, "and I am probably the
greatest detective in the world. You are quite sure that you did not
see or speak to your wife on that train?"

"What are you getting at? Do you--do you mean to insinuate that I--I
killed her?"

He laughed suddenly.

"I mustn't lose my temper; it's too palpably absurd. Why, if I killed
her I should have had no need to steal her jewels, would I?"

"That is true," murmured Poirot, with a rather crestfallen air. "I did
not think of that."

"If ever there were a clear case of murder and robbery, this is it,"
said Derek Kettering. "Poor Ruth, it was those damned rubies did for
her. It must have got about she had them with her. There has been
murder done for those same stones before now, I believe."

Poirot sat up suddenly in his chair. A very faint green light glowed in
his eyes. He looked extraordinarily like a sleek, well-fed cat.

"One more question, M. Kettering," he said. "Will you give me the date
when you last saw your wife?"

"Let me see," Kettering reflected. "It must have been--yes over three
weeks ago. I am afraid I can't give you the date exactly."

"No matter," said Poirot drily; "that is all I wanted to know."

"Well," said Derek Kettering impatiently, "anything further?"

He looked towards M. Carrège. The latter sought inspiration from
Poirot, and received it in a very faint shake of the head.

"No, M. Kettering," he said politely; "no, I do not think we need
trouble you any further. I wish you good morning."

"Good morning," said Kettering. He went out, banging the door behind
him.

Poirot leaned forward and spoke sharply, as soon as the young man was
out of the room.

"Tell me," he said peremptorily, "when did you speak of these rubies to
M. Kettering?"

"I have not spoken of them," said M. Carrège. "It was only yesterday
afternoon that we learnt about them from M. Van Aldin."

"Yes; but there was a mention of them in the Comte's letter."

M. Carrège looked pained.

"Naturally I did not speak of that letter to M. Kettering," he said in
a shocked voice. "It would have been most indiscreet at the present
juncture of affairs."

Poirot leaned forward and tapped the table.

"_Then how did he know about them?_" he demanded softly. "Madame could
not have told him, for he has not seen her for three weeks. It seems
unlikely that either M. Van Aldin or his secretary would have mentioned
them; their interviews with him have been on entirely different lines,
and there has not been any hint or reference to them in the newspapers."

He got up and took his hat and stick.

"And yet," he murmured to himself, "our gentleman knows all about them.
I wonder now, yes, I wonder!"




                           18. Derek Lunches


Derek Kettering went straight to the Negresco, where he ordered a
couple of cocktails and disposed of them rapidly; then he stared
moodily out over the dazzling blue sea. He noted the passers-by
mechanically--a damned dull crowd, badly dressed, and painfully
uninteresting; one hardly ever saw anything worth while nowadays. Then
he corrected this last impression rapidly, as a woman placed herself at
a table a little distance away from him. She was wearing a marvellous
confection of orange and black, with a little hat that shaded her face.
He ordered a third cocktail; again he stared out to sea, and then
suddenly he started. A well-known perfume assailed his nostrils, and he
looked up to see the orange-and-black lady standing beside him. He saw
her face now, and recognized her. It was Mirelle. She was smiling that
insolent, seductive smile he knew so well.

"Dereek!" she murmured. "You are pleased to see me, no?"

She dropped into a seat the other side of the table.

"But welcome me, then, stupid one," she mocked.

"This is an unexpected pleasure," said Derek. "When did you leave
London?"

She shrugged her shoulders.

"A day or two ago."

"And the Parthenon?"

"I have, how do you say it?--given them the chuck!"

"Really?"

"You are not very amiable, Dereek."

"Do you expect me to be?"

Mirelle lit a cigarette and puffed at it for a few minutes before
saying:

"You think, perhaps, that it is not prudent so soon?"

Derek stared at her, then he shrugged his shoulders, and remarked
formally:

"You are lunching here?"

"_Mais oui._ I am lunching with you."

"I am extremely sorry," said Derek. "I have a very important
engagement."

"_Mon Dieu!_ But you men are like children," exclaimed the dancer. "But
yes, it is the spoilt child that you act to me ever since that day in
London when you flung yourself out of my flat, you sulk. Ah! _mais
c'est inoui!_"

"My dear girl," said Derek, "I really don't know what you are talking
about. We agreed in London that rats desert a sinking ship, that is all
that there is to be said."

In spite of his careless words, his face looked haggard and strained.
Mirelle leaned forward suddenly.

"You cannot deceive me," she murmured. "I know--I know what you have
done for me."

He looked up at her sharply. Some undercurrent in her voice arrested
his attention. She nodded her head at him.

"Ah! have no fear; I am discreet. You are magnificent! You have a
superb courage, but, all the same, it was I who gave you the idea that
day, when I said to you in London that accidents sometimes happened.
And you are not in danger? The police do not suspect you?"

"What the devil--"

"Hush!"

She held up a slim olive hand with one big emerald on the little finger.

"You are right; I should not have spoken so in a public place. We will
not speak of the matter again, but our troubles are ended; our life
together will be wonderful--wonderful!"

Derek laughed suddenly--a harsh, disagreeable laugh.

"So the rats come back, do they? Two million makes a difference--of
course it does. I ought to have known that." He laughed again. "You
will help me to spend that two million, won't you, Mirelle? You know
how, no woman better." He laughed again.

"Hush!" cried the dancer. "What is the matter with you, Dereek?
See--people are turning to stare at you."

"Me? I will tell you what is the matter. I have finished with you,
Mirelle. Do you hear? Finished!"

Mirelle did not take it as he expected her to do. She looked at him for
a minute or two, and then she smiled softly.

"But what a child! You are angry--you are sore, and all because I am
practical. Did I not always tell you that I adored you?"

She leaned forward.

"But I know you, Dereek. Look at me--see, it is Mirelle who speaks to
you. You cannot live without her, you know it. I loved you before, I
will love you a hundred times more now. I will make life wonderful for
you--but wonderful. There is no one like Mirelle."

Her eyes burned into his. She saw him grow pale and draw in his breath,
and she smiled to herself contentedly. She knew her own magic and power
over men.

"That is settled," she said softly, and gave a little laugh. "And now,
Dereek, will you give me lunch?"

"No."

He drew in his breath sharply and rose to his feet.

"I am sorry, but I told you--I have got an engagement."

"You are lunching with some one else? Bah! I don't believe it."

"I am lunching with that lady over there."

He crossed abruptly to where a lady in white had just come up the
steps. He addressed her a little breathlessly.

"Miss Grey, will you--will you have lunch with me? You met me at Lady
Tamplin's, if you remember."

Katherine looked at him for a minute or two with those thoughtful grey
eyes that said so much.

"Thank you," she said, after a moment's pause; "I should like to very
much."




                       19. An Unexpected Visitor


The Comte de la Roche had just finished _déjeuner_, consisting of an
_omelette fines herbes_, an _entrecôte Béarnaise_, and a _Savarin
au Rhum_. Wiping his fine black moustache delicately with his table
napkin, the Comte rose from the table. He passed through the salon of
the villa, noting with appreciation the few _objets d'art_ which were
carelessly scattered about. The Louis XV snuff-box, the satin shoe
worn by Marie Antoinette, and the other historic trifles were part of
the Comte's _mise en scène_. They were, he would explain to his fair
visitors, heirlooms in his family. Passing through on to the terrace,
the Comte looked out on the Mediterranean with an unseeing eye. He was
in no mood for appreciating the beauties of scenery. A fully matured
scheme had been rudely brought to naught, and his plans had to be cast
afresh. Stretching himself out in a basket chair, a cigarette held
between his white fingers, the Comte pondered deeply.

Presently Hippolyte, his man-servant, brought out coffee and a choice
of liqueurs. The Comte selected some very fine old brandy.

As the man-servant was preparing to depart, the Comte arrested him
with a slight gesture. Hippolyte stood respectfully to attention. His
countenance was hardly a prepossessing one, but the correctitude of his
demeanour went far to obliterate the fact. He was now the picture of
respectful attention.

"It is possible," said the Comte, "that in the course of the next few
days various strangers may come to the house. They will endeavour to
scrape acquaintance with you and with Marie. They will probably ask you
various questions concerning me."

"Yes, Monsieur le Comte."

"Perhaps this has already happened?"

"No, Monsieur le Comte."

"There have been no strangers about the place? You are certain?"

"There has been no one, Monsieur le Comte."

"That is well," said the Comte drily; "nevertheless they will come--I
am sure of it. They will ask questions."

Hippolyte looked at his master in intelligent anticipation.

The Comte spoke slowly, without looking at Hippolyte.

"As you know, I arrived here last Tuesday morning. If the police or any
other inquirer should question you, do not forget that fact. I arrived
on Tuesday, the 14th--not Wednesday, the 15th. You understand?"

"Perfectly, Monsieur le Comte."

"In an affair where a lady is concerned, it is always necessary to be
discreet. I feel certain, Hippolyte, that you can be discreet."

"I can be discreet, Monsieur."

"And Marie?"

"Marie also. I will answer for her."

"That is well then," murmured the Comte.

When Hippolyte had withdrawn, the Comte sipped his black coffee with
a reflective air. Occasionally he frowned, once he shook his head
slightly, twice he nodded it. Into the midst of these cogitations came
Hippolyte once more.

"A lady, Monsieur."

"A lady?"

The Comte was surprised. Not that a visit from a lady was an unusual
thing at the Villa Marina, but at this particular moment the Comte
could not think who the lady was likely to be.

"She is, I think, a lady not known to Monsieur," murmured the valet
helpfully.

The Comte was more and more intrigued.

"Show her out here, Hippolyte," he commanded.

A moment later a marvellous vision in orange and black stepped out on
the terrace, accompanied by a strong perfume of exotic blossoms.

"Monsieur le Comte de la Roche?"

"At your service, Mademoiselle," said the Comte, bowing.

"My name is Mirelle. You may have heard of me."

"Ah, indeed, Mademoiselle, but who has not been enchanted by the
dancing of Mademoiselle Mirelle? Exquisite!"

The dancer acknowledged this compliment with a brief mechanical smile.

"My descent upon you is unceremonious," she began.

"But seat yourself, I beg of you, Mademoiselle," cried the Comte,
bringing forward a chair.

Behind the gallantry of his manner he was observing her narrowly. There
were very few things that the Comte did not know about women. True, his
experience had not lain much in ladies of Mirelle's class, who were
themselves predatory. He and the dancer were, in a sense, birds of a
feather. His arts, the Comte knew, would be thrown away on Mirelle. She
was a Parisienne, and a shrewd one. Nevertheless, there was one thing
that the Comte could recognize infallibly when he saw it. He knew at
once that he was in the presence of a very angry woman, and an angry
woman, as the Comte was well aware, always says more than is prudent,
and is occasionally a source of profit to a level-headed gentleman who
keeps cool.

"It is most amiable of you, Mademoiselle, to honour my poor abode thus."

"We have mutual friends in Paris," said Mirelle. "I have heard of you
from them, but I come to see you to-day for another reason. I have
heard of you since I came to Nice--in a different way, you understand."

"Ah?" said the Comte softly.

"I will be brutal," continued the dancer; "nevertheless, believe that I
have your welfare at heart. They are saying in Nice, Monsieur le Comte,
that you are the murderer of the English lady, Madame Kettering."

"I!--the murderer of Madame Kettering? Bah! But how absurd!"

He spoke more languidly than indignantly, knowing that he would thus
provoke her further.

"But yes," she insisted; "it is as I tell you."

"It amuses people to talk," murmured the Comte indifferently. "It would
be beneath me to take such wild accusations seriously."

"You do not understand." Mirelle bent forward, her dark eyes flashing.
"It is not the idle talk of those in the streets. It is the police."

"The police--ah?"

The Comte sat up, alert once more.

Mirelle nodded her head vigorously several times.

"Yes, yes. You comprehend me--I have friends every where. The Prefect
himself--" She left the sentence unfinished, with an eloquent shrug of
the shoulders.

"Who is not indiscreet where a beautiful woman is concerned?" murmured
the Count politely.

"The police believe that you killed Madame Kettering. But they are
wrong."

"Certainly they are wrong," agreed the Comte easily.

"You say that, but you do not know the truth. I do."

The Comte looked at her curiously.

"You know who killed Madame Kettering? Is that what you would say,
Mademoiselle?"

Mirelle nodded vehemently.

"Yes."

"Who was it?" asked the Comte sharply.

"Her husband." She bent nearer to the Comte, speaking in a low voice
that vibrated with anger and excitement. "It was her husband who killed
her."

The Comte leant back in his chair. His face was a mask.

"Let me ask you, Mademoiselle--how do you know this?"

"How do I know it?" Mirelle sprang to her feet, with a laugh. "He
boasted of it beforehand. He was ruined, bankrupt, dishonoured. Only
the death of his wife could save him. He told me so. He travelled
on the same train--but she was not to know it. Why was that, I ask
you? So that he might creep upon her in the night--Ah!"--she shut her
eyes--"I can see it happening...."

The Count coughed.

"Perhaps--perhaps," he murmured. "But surely, Mademoiselle, in that
case he would not steal the jewels?"

"The jewels!" breathed Mirelle. "The jewels. Ah! Those rubies...."

Her eyes grew misty, a far-away light in them. The Comte looked at her
curiously, wondering for the hundredth time at the magical influence of
precious stones on the female sex. He recalled her to practical matters.

"What do you want me to do, Mademoiselle?"

Mirelle became alert and business-like once more.

"Surely it is simple. You will go to the police. You will say to them
that M. Kettering committed this crime."

"And if they do not believe me? If they ask for proof?" He was eyeing
her closely.

Mirelle laughed softly, and drew her orange-and-black wrap closer round
her.

"Send them to me, Monsieur le Comte," she said softly; "I will give
them the proof they want."

Upon that she was gone, an impetuous whirlwind, her errand accomplished.

The Comte looked after her, his eyebrows delicately raised.

"She is in a fury," he murmured. "What has happened now to upset her?
But she shows her hand too plainly. Does she really believe that Mr.
Kettering killed his wife? She would like me to believe it. She would
even like the police to believe it."

He smiled to himself. He had no intention whatsoever of going to the
police. He saw various other possibilities, to judge by his smile, an
agreeable vista of them.

Presently, however, his brow clouded. According to Mirelle, he was
suspected by the police. That might be true or it might not. An
angry woman of the type of the dancer was not likely to bother about
the strict veracity of her statements. On the other hand, she might
easily have obtained--inside information. In that case--his mouth set
grimly--in that case he must take certain precautions.

He went into the house and questioned Hippolyte closely once more as
to whether any strangers had been to the house. The valet was positive
in his assurances that this was not the case. The Comte went up to
his bedroom and crossed over to an old bureau that stood against the
wall. He let down the lid of this, and his delicate fingers sought for
a spring at the back of one of the pigeon-holes. A secret drawer flew
out; in it was a small brown paper package. The Comte took this out and
weighed it in his hand carefully for a minute or two. Raising his hand
to his head, with a slight grimace he pulled out a single hair. This he
placed on the lip of the drawer and shut it carefully. Still carrying
the small parcel in his hand, he went downstairs and out of the house
to the garage, where stood a scarlet two-seater car. Ten minutes later
he had taken the road for Monte Carlo.

He spent a few hours at the Casino, then sauntered out into the town.
Presently he re-entered the car and drove off in the direction of
Mentone. Earlier in the afternoon he had noticed an inconspicuous grey
car some little distance behind him. He noticed it again now. He smiled
to himself. The road was climbing steadily upwards. The Comte's foot
pressed hard on the accelerator. The little red car had been specially
built to the Comte's design, and had a far more powerful engine than
would have been suspected from its appearance. It shot ahead.

Presently he looked back and smiled; the grey car was following
behind. Smothered in dust, the little red car leaped along the road.
It was travelling now at a dangerous pace, but the Comte was a
first-class driver. Now they were going down hill, twisting and curving
unceasingly. Presently the car slackened speed, and finally came to
a standstill before a Bureau de Poste. The Comte jumped out, lifted
the lid of the tool chest, extracted the small brown paper parcel and
hurried into the post office. Two minutes later he was driving once
more in the direction of Mentone. When the grey car arrived there, the
Comte was drinking English five o'clock tea on the terrace of one of
the hotels.

Later, he drove back to Monte Carlo, dined there, and reached home once
more at eleven o'clock. Hippolyte came out to meet him with a disturbed
face.

"Ah! Monsieur le Comte has arrived. Monsieur le Comte did not telephone
me, by any chance?"

The Comte shook his head.

"And yet at three o'clock I received a summons from Monsieur le Comte,
to present myself to him at Nice, at the Negresco."

"Really," said the Comte; "and you went?"

"Certainly, Monsieur, but at the Negresco they knew nothing of Monsieur
le Comte. He had not been there."

"Ah," said the Comte, "doubtless at that hour Marie was out doing her
afternoon marketing?"

"That is so, Monsieur le Comte."

"Ah, well," said the Comte, "it is of no importance. A mistake."

He went upstairs, smiling to himself.

Once within his own room, he bolted his door and looked sharply round.
Everything seemed as usual. He opened various drawers and cupboards.
Then he nodded to himself. Things had been replaced almost exactly as
he had left them, but not quite. It was evident that a very thorough
search had been made.

He went over to the bureau and pressed the hidden spring. The drawer
flew open, but the hair was no longer where he had placed it. He nodded
his head several times.

"They are excellent, our French police," he murmured to
himself--"excellent. Nothing escapes them."




                     20. Katherine Makes a Friend


On the following morning Katherine and Lenox were sitting on the
terrace of the Villa Marguerite. Something in the nature of a
friendship was springing up between them, despite the difference in
age. But for Lenox, Katherine would have found life at the Villa
Marguerite quite intolerable. The Kettering case was the topic of the
moment. Lady Tamplin frankly exploited her guest's connection with the
affair for all it was worth. The most persistent rebuffs that Katherine
could administer quite failed to pierce Lady Tamplin's self-esteem.
Lenox adopted a detached attitude, seemingly amused at her mother's
manœuvres, and yet with a sympathetic understanding of Katherine's
feelings. The situation was not helped by Chubby, whose naïve delight
was unquenchable, and who introduced Katherine to all and sundry as:

"This is Miss Grey. You know that Blue Train business? She was in it up
to the ears! Had a long talk with Ruth Kettering a few hours before the
murder! Bit of luck for her, eh?"

A few remarks of this kind had provoked Katherine that morning to an
unusually tart rejoinder, and when they were alone together Lenox
observed in her slow drawl:

"Not used to exploitation, are you? You have a lot to learn, Katherine."

"I am sorry I lost my temper. I don't, as a rule."

"It is about time you learnt to blow off steam. Chubby is only an ass;
there is no harm in him. Mother, of course, is trying, but you can
lose your temper with her until Kingdom come, and it won't make any
impression. She will open large, sad blue eyes at you and not care a
bit."

Katherine made no reply to this filial observation, and Lenox presently
went on:

"I am rather like Chubby. I delight in a good murder, and
besides--well, knowing Derek makes a difference."

Katherine nodded.

"So you lunched with him yesterday," pursued Lenox reflectively. "Do
you like him, Katherine?"

Katherine considered for a minute or two.
"I don't know," she said very slowly.

"He is very attractive."

"Yes, he is attractive."

"What don't you like about him?"

Katherine did not reply to the question, or at any rate not directly.
"He spoke of his wife's death," she said. "He said he would not pretend
that it had been anything but a bit of most marvellous luck for him."

"And that shocked you, I suppose," said Lenox. She paused, and then
added in rather a queer tone of voice: "He likes you, Katherine."

"He gave me a very good lunch," said Katherine, smiling.

Lenox refused to be side-tracked.

"I saw it the night he came here," she said thoughtfully. "The way he
looked at you; and you are not his usual type--just the opposite. Well,
I suppose it is like religion--you get it at a certain age."

"Mademoiselle is wanted at the telephone," said Marie, appearing at the
window of the salon. "M. Hercule Poirot desires to speak with her."

"More blood and thunder. Go on, Katherine; go and dally with your
detective."

M. Hercule Poirot's voice came neat and precise in its intonation to
Katherine's ear.

"That is Mademoiselle Grey who speaks? _Bon._ Mademoiselle, I have a
word for you from M. Van Aldin, the father of Madame Kettering. He
wishes very much to speak with you, either at the Villa Marguerite or
at his hotel, whichever you prefer."

Katherine reflected for a moment, but she decided that for Van Aldin
to come to the Villa Marguerite would be both painful and unnecessary.
Lady Tamplin would have hailed his advent with far too much delight.
She never lost a chance of cultivating millionaires. She told Poirot
that she would much rather come to Nice.

"Excellent, Mademoiselle. I will call for you myself in an auto. Shall
we say in about three-quarters of an hour?"

Punctually to the moment Poirot appeared. Katherine was waiting for
him, and they drove off at once.

"Well, Mademoiselle, how goes it?"

She looked at his twinkling eyes, and was confirmed in her first
impression that there was something very attractive about M. Hercule
Poirot.

"This is our own Roman Policier, is it not?" said Poirot. "I made you
the promise that we should study it together. And me, I always keep my
promises."

"You are too kind," murmured Katherine.

"Ah, you mock yourself at me; but do you want to hear the developments
of the case, or do you not?"

Katherine admitted that she did, and Poirot proceeded to sketch for her
a thumbnail portrait of the Comte de la Roche.

"You think he killed her," said Katherine thoughtfully.

"That is the theory," said Poirot guardedly.

"Do you yourself believe that?"

"I did not say so. And you, Mademoiselle, what do you think?"

Katherine shook her head.

"How should I know? I don't know anything about those things, but I
should say that--"

"Yes," said Poirot encouragingly.

"Well--from what you say the Count does not sound the kind of man who
would actually kill anybody."

"Ah! Very good," cried Poirot, "you agree with me; that is just what I
have said." He looked at her sharply. "But tell me, you have met Mr.
Derek Kettering?"

"I met him at Lady Tamplin's, and I lunched with him yesterday."

"A _mauvais sujet_," said Poirot, shaking his head; "but _les
femmes_--they like that, eh?"

He twinkled at Katherine and she laughed.

"He is the kind of man one would notice anywhere," continued Poirot.
"Doubtless you observed him on the Blue Train?"

"Yes, I noticed him."

"In the restaurant car?"

"No. I didn't notice him at meals at all. I only saw him once--going
into his wife's compartment."

Poirot nodded. "A strange business," he murmured. "I believe you said
you were awake, Mademoiselle, and looked out of your window at Lyons?
You saw no tall dark man such as the Comte de la Roche leave the train?"

Katherine shook her head. "I don't think I saw any one at all," she
said. "There was a youngish lad in a cap and overcoat who got out, but
I don't think he was leaving the train, only walking up and down the
platform. There was a fat Frenchman with a beard, in pyjamas and an
overcoat, who wanted a cup of coffee. Otherwise, I think there were
only the train attendants."

Poirot nodded his head several times. "It is like this, you see," he
confided, "the Comte de la Roche has an alibi. An alibi, it is a very
pestilential thing, and always open to the gravest suspicion. But here
we are!"

They went straight up to Van Aldin's suite, where they found Knighton.
Poirot introduced him to Katherine. After a few commonplaces had been
exchanged, Knighton said, "I will tell Mr. Van Aldin that Miss Grey is
here."

He went through a second door into an adjoining room. There was a low
murmur of voices, and then Van Aldin came into the room and advanced
towards Katherine with outstretched hand, giving her at the same time a
shrewd and penetrating glance.

"I am pleased to meet you, Miss Grey," he said simply. "I have been
wanting very badly to hear what you can tell me about Ruth."

The quiet simplicity of the millionaire's manner appealed to Katherine
strongly. She felt herself in the presence of a very genuine grief, the
more real for its absence of outward sign.

He drew forward a chair.

"Sit here, will you, and just tell me all about it."

Poirot and Knighton retired discreetly into the other room, and
Katherine and Van Aldin were left alone together. She found no
difficulty in her task. Quite simply and naturally she related her
conversation with Ruth Kettering, word for word as nearly as she
could. He listened in silence, leaning back in his chair, with one hand
shading his eyes. When she had finished he said quietly:

"Thank you, my dear."

They both sat silent for a minute or two. Katherine felt that words of
sympathy would be out of place. When the millionaire spoke, it was in a
different tone:

"I am very grateful to you, Miss Grey. I think you did something to
ease my poor Ruth's mind in the last hours of her life. Now I want
to ask you something. You know--M. Poirot will have told you--about
the scoundrel that my poor girl had got herself mixed up with. He was
the man of whom she spoke to you--the man she was going to meet. In
your judgment do you think she might have changed her mind after her
conversation with you? Do you think she meant to go back on her word?"

"I can't honestly tell you. She had certainly come to some decision,
and seemed more cheerful in consequence of it."

"She gave you no idea where she intended to meet the skunk--whether in
Paris or at Hyères?"

Katherine shook her head.

"She said nothing as to that."

"Ah!" said Van Aldin thoughtfully, "and that is the important point.
Well, time will show."

He got up and opened the door of the adjoining room. Poirot and
Knighton came back.

Katherine declined the millionaire's invitation to lunch, and Knighton
went down with her and saw her into the waiting car. He returned to
find Poirot and Van Aldin deep in conversation.

"If we only knew," said the millionaire thoughtfully, "what decision
Ruth came to. It might have been any of half a dozen. She might have
meant to leave the train at Paris and cable to me. She may have meant
to have gone on to the south of France and have an explanation with the
Count there. We are in the dark--absolutely in the dark. But we have
the maid's word for it that she was both startled and dismayed at the
Count's appearance at the station in Paris. That was clearly not part
of the preconceived plan. You agree with me, Knighton?"

The secretary started. "I beg your pardon, Mr. Van Aldin. I was not
listening."

"Day-dreaming, eh?" said Van Aldin. "That's not like you. I believe
that girl has bowled you over."

Knighton blushed.

"She is a remarkably nice girl," said Van Aldin thoughtfully, "very
nice. Did you happen to notice her eyes?"

"Any man," said Knighton, "would be bound to notice her eyes."




                           21. At the Tennis


Several days had elapsed. Katherine had been for a walk by herself one
morning, and came back to find Lenox grinning at her expectantly.

"Your young man has been ringing you up, Katherine!"

"Who do you call my young man?"

"A new one--Rufus Van Aldin's secretary. You seem to have made rather
an impression there. You are becoming a serious breaker of hearts,
Katherine. First Derek Kettering, and now this young Knighton. The
funny thing is, that I remember him quite well. He was in Mother's War
Hospital that she ran out here. I was only a kid of about eight at the
time."

"Was he badly wounded?"

"Shot in the leg, if I remember rightly--rather a nasty business. I
think the doctors messed it up a bit. They said he wouldn't limp or
anything, but when he left here he was still completely dot and go one."

Lady Tamplin came out and joined them.

"Have you been telling Katherine about Major Knighton?" she asked.
"Such a dear fellow! Just at first I didn't remember him--one had so
many--but now it all comes back."

"He was a bit too unimportant to be remembered before," said Lenox.
"Now that he is a secretary to an American millionaire, it is a very
different matter."

"Darling!" said Lady Tamplin in her vague reproachful voice.

"What did Major Knighton ring up about?" inquired Katherine.

"He asked if you would like to go to the tennis this afternoon. If so,
he would call for you in a car. Mother and I accepted for you with
_empressement_. Whilst you dally with a millionaire's secretary, you
might give me a chance with the millionaire, Katherine. He is about
sixty, I suppose, so that he will be looking about for a nice sweet
young thing like me."

"I should like to meet Mr. Van Aldin," said Lady Tamplin earnestly;
"one has heard so much of him. Those fine rugged figures of the Western
world"--she broke off--"so fascinating," she murmured.

"Major Knighton was very particular to say it was Mr. Van Aldin's
invitation," said Lenox. "He said it so often that I began to smell a
rat. You and Knighton would make a very nice pair, Katherine. Bless
you, my children!"

Katherine laughed, and went upstairs to change her clothes.

Knighton arrived soon after lunch and endured manfully Lady Tamplin's
transports of recognition.

When they were driving together towards Cannes he remarked to
Katherine: "Lady Tamplin has changed wonderfully little."

"In manner or appearance?"

"Both. She must be, I suppose, well over forty, but she is a remarkably
beautiful woman still."

"She is," agreed Katherine.

"I am very glad that you could come to-day," went on Knighton. "M.
Poirot is going to be there also. What an extraordinary little man he
is. Do you know him well, Miss Grey?"

Katherine shook her head. "I met him on the train on the way here. I
was reading a detective novel, and I happened to say something about
such things not happening in real life. Of course, I had no idea of who
he was."

"He is a very remarkable person," said Knighton slowly, "and has done
some very remarkable things. He has a kind of genius for going to the
root of the matter, and right up to the end no one has any idea of
what he is really thinking. I remember I was staying at a house in
Yorkshire, and Lady Clanravon's jewels were stolen. It seemed at first
to be a simple robbery, but it completely baffled the local police. I
wanted them to call in Hercule Poirot, and said he was the only man who
could help them, but they pinned their faith to Scotland Yard."

"And what happened?" said Katherine curiously.

"The jewels were never recovered," said Knighton drily.

"You really do believe in him?"

"I do indeed. The Comte de la Roche is a pretty wily customer. He
has wriggled out of most things. But I think he has met his match in
Hercule Poirot."

"The Comte de la Roche," said Katherine thoughtfully; "so you really
think he did it?"

"Of course." Knighton looked at her in astonishment. "Don't you?"

"Oh yes," said Katherine hastily; "that is, I mean, if it was not just
an ordinary train robbery."

"It might be, of course," agreed the other, "but it seems to me that
the Comte de la Roche fits into this business particularly well."

"And yet he has an alibi."

"Oh, alibis!" Knighton laughed, his face broke into his attractive
boyish smile.

"You confess that you read detective stories, Miss Grey. You must know
that any one who has a perfect alibi is always open to grave suspicion."

"Do you think that real life is like that?" asked Katherine, smiling.

"Why not? Fiction is founded on fact."

"But is rather superior to it," suggested Katherine.

"Perhaps. Anyway, if I was a criminal I should not like to have Hercule
Poirot on my track."

"No more should I," said Katherine, and laughed.

They were met on arrival by Poirot. As the day was warm he was attired
in a white duck suit, with a white camellia in his buttonhole.

"_Bon jour_, Mademoiselle," said Poirot. "I look very English, do I
not?"

"You look wonderful," said Katherine tactfully.

"You mock yourself at me," said Poirot genially, "but no matter. Papa
Poirot, he always laughs the last."

"Where is Mr. Van Aldin?" asked Knighton.

"He will meet us at our seats. To tell you the truth, my friend, he
is not too well pleased with me. Oh, those Americans--the repose, the
calm, they know it not! Mr. Van Aldin, he would that I fly myself in
the pursuit of criminals through all the byways of Nice."

"I should have thought myself that it would not have been a bad plan,"
observed Knighton.

"You are wrong," said Poirot; "in these matters one needs not energy
but finesse. At the tennis one meets every one. That is so important.
Ah, there is Mr. Kettering."

Derek came abruptly up to them. He looked reckless and angry, as though
something had arisen to upset him. He and Knighton greeted each other
with some frigidity. Poirot alone seemed unconscious of any sense of
strain, and chatted pleasantly in a laudable attempt to put every one
at his ease. He paid little compliments.

"It is amazing, M. Kettering, how well you speak the French," he
observed--"so well that you could be taken for a Frenchman if you
chose. That is a very rare accomplishment among Englishmen."

"I wish I did," said Katherine. "I am only too well aware that my
French is of a painfully British order."

They reached their seats and sat down, and almost immediately Knighton
perceived his employer signaling to him from the other end of the
court, and went off to speak to him.

"Me, I approve of that young man," said Poirot, sending a beaming smile
after the departing secretary; "and you, Mademoiselle?"

"I like him very much."

"And you, M. Kettering?"

Some quick rejoinder was springing to Derek's lips, but he checked it
as though something in the little Belgian's twinkling eyes had made him
suddenly alert. He spoke carefully, choosing his words.

"Knighton is a very good fellow," he said.

Just for a moment Katherine fancied that Poirot looked disappointed.

"He is a great admirer of yours, M. Poirot," she said, and she related
some of the things that Knighton had said. It amused her to see the
little man plume himself like a bird, thrusting out his chest, and
assuming an air of mock modesty that would have deceived no one.

"That reminds me, Mademoiselle," he said suddenly, "I have a little
matter of business I have to speak to you about. When you were sitting
talking to that poor lady in the train, I think you must have dropped a
cigarette case."

Katherine looked rather astonished. "I don't think so," she said.
Poirot drew from his pocket a cigarette case of soft blue leather, with
the initial "K" on it in gold.

"No, that is not mine," Katherine said.

"Ah, a thousand apologies. It was doubtless Madame's own. 'K,' of
course, stands for Kettering. We were doubtful, because she had another
cigarette case in her bag, and it seemed odd that she should have two."
He turned to Derek suddenly. "You do not know, I suppose, whether this
was your wife's case or not?"

Derek seemed momentarily taken aback. He stammered a little in his
reply: "I--I don't know. I suppose so."

"It is not yours by any chance?"

"Certainly not. If it were mine it would hardly have been in my wife's
possession."

Poirot looked more ingenuous and childlike than ever.

"I thought perhaps you might have dropped it when you were in your
wife's compartment," he explained guilelessly.

"I never was there. I have already told the police that a dozen times."

"A thousand pardons," said Poirot, with his most apologetic air. "It
was Mademoiselle here who mentioned having seen you going in."

He stopped with an air of embarrassment.

Katherine looked at Derek. His face had gone rather white, but perhaps
that was her fancy. His laugh, when it came, was natural enough.

"You made a mistake, Miss Grey," he said easily. "From what the police
have told me, I gather that my own compartment was only a door or two
away from that of my wife's--though I never suspected the fact at the
time. You must have seen me going into my own compartment." He got up
quickly as he saw Van Aldin and Knighton approaching.

"I'm going to leave you now," he announced. "I can't stand my
father-in-law at any price."

Van Aldin greeted Katherine very courteously, but was clearly in a bad
humour.

"You seem fond of watching tennis, M. Poirot," he growled.

"It is a pleasure to me, yes," cried Poirot placidly.

"It is as well you are in France," said Van Aldin. "We are made of
sterner stuff in the States. Business comes before pleasure there."

Poirot did not take offence; indeed, he smiled gently and confidingly
at the irate millionaire.

"Do not enrage yourself, I beg of you. Every one has his own methods.
Me, I have always found it a delightful and pleasing idea to combine
business and pleasure together."

He glanced at the other two. They were deep in conversation, absorbed
in each other. Poirot nodded his head in satisfaction, and then leant
towards the millionaire, lowering his voice as he did so.

"It is not only for pleasure that I am here, M. Van Aldin. Observe just
opposite us that tall old man--the one with the yellow face and the
venerable beard."

"Well, what of him?"

"That," Poirot said, "is M. Papopolous."

"A Greek, eh?"

"As you say--a Greek. He is a dealer in antiques of world-wide
reputation. He has a small shop in Paris, and he is suspected by the
police of being something more."

"What?"

"A receiver of stolen goods, especially jewels. There is nothing as to
the re-cutting and re-setting of gems that he does not know. He deals
with the highest in Europe and with the lowest of the riff-raff of the
underworld."

Van Aldin was looking at Poirot with suddenly awakened attention.

"Well?" he demanded, a new note in his voice.

"I ask myself," said Poirot, "I, Hercule Poirot"--he thumped himself
dramatically on the chest--"ask myself _why is M. Papopolous suddenly
come to Nice?_"

Van Aldin was impressed. For a moment he had doubted Poirot and
suspected the little man of being past his job, a _poseur_ only. Now,
in a moment, he switched back to his original opinion. He looked
straight at the little detective.

"I must apologize to you, M. Poirot."

Poirot waved the apology aside with an extravagant gesture.

"Bah!" he cried, "all that is of no importance. Now listen, M. Van
Aldin; I have news for you."

The millionaire looked sharply at him, all his interest aroused.

Poirot nodded.

"It is as I say. You will be interested. As you know, M. Van Aldin, the
Comte de la Roche has been under surveillance ever since his interview
with the Juge d'Instruction. The day after that, during his absence,
the Villa Marina was searched by the police."

"Well," said Van Aldin, "did they find anything? I bet they didn't."

Poirot made him a little bow.

"Your acumen is not at fault, M. Van Aldin. They found nothing of an
incriminating nature. It was not to be expected that they would. The
Comte de la Roche, as your expressive idiom has it, was not born on
the preceding day. He is an astute gentleman with great experience."

"Well, go on," growled Van Aldin.

"It may be, of course, that the Comte had nothing of a compromising
nature to conceal. But we must not neglect the possibility. If, then,
he has something to conceal, where is it? Not in his house--the police
searched thoroughly. Not on his person, for he knows that he is liable
to arrest at any minute. There remains--his car. As I say, he was under
surveillance. He was followed on that day to Monte Carlo. From there he
went by road to Mentone, driving himself. His car is a very powerful
one, it outdistanced his pursuers, and for about a quarter of an hour
they completely lost sight of him."

"And during that time you think he concealed something by the
roadside?" asked Van Aldin, keenly interested.

"By the roadside, no. _Ça n'est pas pratique._ But listen now--me, I
have made a little suggestion to M. Carrège. He is graciously pleased
to approve of it. In each Bureau de Poste in the neighbourhood it has
been seen to that there is some one who knows the Comte de la Roche by
sight. Because, you see, Monsieur, the best way of hiding a thing is by
sending it away by the post."

"Well?" demanded Van Aldin; his face was keenly alight with interest
and expectation.

"Well--_voilà!_" With a dramatic flourish Poirot drew out from his
pocket a loosely wrapped brown paper package from which the string had
been removed.

"During that quarter of an hour's interval, our good gentleman mailed
this."

"The address?" asked the other sharply.

Poirot nodded his head.

"Might have told us something, but unfortunately it does not. The
package was addressed to one of these little newspaper shops in Paris
where letters and parcels are kept until called for on payment of a
small commission."

"Yes, but what is inside?" demanded Van Aldin impatiently.

Poirot unwrapped the brown paper and disclosed a square cardboard box.
He looked round him.

"It is a good moment," he said quietly. "All eyes are on the tennis.
Look, Monsieur!"

He lifted the lid of the box for the fraction of a second. An
exclamation of utter astonishment came from the millionaire. His face
turned as white as chalk.

"My God!" he breathed, "the rubies."

He sat for a minute as though dazed. Poirot restored the box to his
pocket and beamed placidly. Then suddenly the millionaire seemed to
come out of his trance; he leaned across to Poirot and wrung his hand
so heartily that the little man winced with pain.

"This is great," said Van Aldin. "Great! You are the goods, M. Poirot.
Once and for all, you are the goods."

"It is nothing," said Poirot modestly. "Order, method, being prepared
for eventualities beforehand--that is all there is to it."

"And now, I suppose, the Comte de la Roche has been arrested?"
continued Van Aldin eagerly.

"No," said Poirot.

A look of utter astonishment came over Van Aldin's face.

"But why? What more do you want?"

"The Comte's alibi is still unshaken."

"But that is nonsense."

"Yes," said Poirot; "I rather think it is nonsense, but unfortunately
we have to prove it so."

"In the meantime he will slip through your fingers."

Poirot shook his head very energetically.

"No," he said, "he will not do that. The one thing the Comte cannot
afford to sacrifice is his social position. At all costs he must stop
and brazen it out."

Van Aldin was still dissatisfied.

"But I don't see--"

Poirot raised a hand. "Grant me a little moment, Monsieur. Me, I have a
little idea. Many people have mocked themselves at the little ideas of
Hercule Poirot--and they have been wrong."

"Well," said Van Aldin, "go ahead. What is this little idea?"

Poirot paused for a moment and then he said:

"I will call upon you at your hotel at eleven o'clock to-morrow
morning. Until then, say nothing to any one."




                     22. M. Papopolous Breakfasts


M. Papopolous was at breakfast. Opposite him sat his daughter, Zia.

There was a knock at the sitting-room door, and a chasseur entered with
a card which he brought to Mr. Papopolous. The latter scrutinized it,
raised his eyebrows, and passed it over to his daughter.

"Ah!" said M. Papopolous, scratching his left ear thoughtfully,
"Hercule Poirot. I wonder now."

Father and daughter looked at each other.

"I saw him yesterday at the tennis," said M. Papopolous. "Zia, I hardly
like this."

"He was very useful to you once," his daughter reminded him.

"That is true," acknowledged M. Papopolous; "also he has retired from
active work, so I hear."

These interchanges between father and daughter had passed in their own
language. Now M. Papopolous turned to the chasseur and said in French:

"_Faites monter ce monsieur._"

A few minutes later Hercule Poirot, exquisitely attired, and swinging a
cane with a jaunty air, entered the room.

"My dear M. Papopolous."

"My dear M. Poirot."

"And Mademoiselle Zia." Poirot swept her a low bow.

"You will excuse us going on with our breakfast," said M. Papopolous,
pouring himself out another cup of coffee. "Your call is--ahem!--a
little early."

"It is scandalous," said Poirot, "but see you, I am pressed."

"Ah!" murmured M. Papopolous, "you are on an affair then?"

"A very serious affair," said Poirot: "the death of Madame Kettering."

"Let me see," M. Papopolous looked innocently up at the ceiling, "that
was the lady who died on the Blue Train, was it not? I saw a mention of
it in the papers, but there was no suggestion of foul play."

"In the interests of justice," said Poirot, "it was thought best to
suppress that fact."

There was a pause.

"And in what way can I assist you, M. Poirot?" asked the dealer
politely.

"_Voilà_," said Poirot, "I shall come to the point." He took from his
pocket the same box that he had displayed at Cannes, and opening it, he
took out the rubies and pushed them across the table to Papopolous.

Although Poirot was watching him narrowly, not a muscle of the old
man's face moved. He took up the jewels and examined them with a
kind of detached interest, then he looked across at the detective
inquiringly:

"Superb, are they not?" asked Poirot.

"Quite excellent," said M. Papopolous.

"How much should you say they are worth?"

The Greek's face quivered a little.

"Is it really necessary to tell you, M. Poirot?" he asked.

"You are shrewd, M. Papopolous. No, it is not. They are not, for
instance, worth five hundred thousand dollars."

Papopolous laughed, and Poirot joined with him.

"As an imitation," said Papopolous, handing them back to Poirot, "they
are, as I said, quite excellent. Would it be indiscreet to ask, M.
Poirot, where you came across them?"

"Not at all," said Poirot; "I have no objection to telling an old
friend like yourself. They were in the possession of the Comte de la
Roche."

M. Papopolous' eyebrows lifted themselves eloquently.

"In-deed," he murmured.

Poirot leant forward and assumed his most innocent and beguiling air.

"M. Papopolous," he said, "I am going to lay my cards upon the table.
The original of these jewels was stolen from Madame Kettering on the
Blue Train. Now I will say to you first this: _I am not concerned with
the recovery of these jewels. That is the affair of the police._ I am
working not for the police but for M. Van Aldin. I want to lay hands on
the man who killed Madame Kettering. I am interested in the jewels only
in so far as they may lead me to the man. You understand?"

The last two words were uttered with great significance. M. Papopolous,
his face quite unmoved, said quietly:

"Go on."

"It seems to me probable, Monsieur, that the jewels will change hands
in Nice--may already have done so."

"Ah!" said M. Papopolous.

He sipped his coffee reflectively, and looked a shade more noble and
patriarchal than usual.

"I say to myself," continued Poirot, with animation, "what good
fortune! My old friend, M. Papopolous, is in Nice. He will aid me."

"And how do you think I can aid you?" inquired M. Papopolous coldly.

"I said to myself, without doubt M. Papopolous is in Nice on business."

"Not at all," said M. Papopolous, "I am here for my health--by the
doctor's orders."

He coughed hollowly.

"I am desolated to hear it," replied Poirot, with somewhat insincere
sympathy. "But to continue. When a Russian Grand Duke, an Austrian
Archduchess, or an Italian Prince wish to dispose of their family
jewels--to whom do they go? To M. Papopolous, is it not? He who is
famous all over the world for the discretion with which he arranges
these things."

The other bowed.

"You flatter me."

"It is a great thing, discretion," mused Poirot, and was rewarded by
the fleeting smile which passed across the Greek's face. "I, too, can
be discreet."

The eyes of the two men met.

Then Poirot went on speaking very slowly, and obviously picking his
words with care.

"I say to myself, this: if these jewels have changed hands in Nice, M.
Papopolous would have heard of it. He has knowledge of all that passes
in the jewel world."

"Ah!" said M. Papopolous, and helped himself to a _croissant_.

"The police, you understand," said M. Poirot, "do not enter into the
matter. It is a personal affair."

"One hears rumours," admitted M. Papopolous cautiously.

"Such as?" prompted Poirot.

"Is there any reason why I should pass them on?"

"Yes," said Poirot, "I think there is. You may remember, M. Papopolous,
that seventeen years ago there was a certain article in your hands,
left there as security by a very--er--Prominent Person. It was in your
keeping and it unaccountably disappeared. You were, if I may use the
English expression, in the soup."

His eyes came gently round to the girl. She had pushed her cup and
plate aside, and with both elbows on the table and her chin resting on
her hands was listening eagerly. Still keeping an eye on her he went on:

"I am in Paris at the time. You send for me. You place yourself in my
hands. If I restore to you that--article, you say I shall earn your
undying gratitude. _Eh bien!_ I did restore it to you."

A long sigh came from M. Papopolous.

"It was the most unpleasant moment of my career," he murmured.

"Seventeen years is a long time," said Poirot thoughtfully, "but I
believe that I am right in saying, Monsieur, that your race does not
forget."

"A Greek?" murmured Papopolous, with an ironical smile.

"It was not as a Greek I meant," said Poirot.

There was a silence, and then the old man drew himself up proudly.

"You are right, M. Poirot," he said quietly. "I am a Jew. And, as you
say, our race does not forget."

"You will aid me then?"

"As regards the jewels, Monsieur, I can do nothing."

The old man, as Poirot had done just now, picked his words carefully.

"I know nothing. I have heard nothing. But I can perhaps do you a good
turn--that is, if you are interested in racing."

"Under certain circumstances I might be," said Poirot, eyeing him
steadily.

"There is a horse running at Longchamps that would, I think, repay
attention. I cannot say for certain, you understand; this news passed
through so many hands."

He stopped, fixing Poirot with his eye, as though to make sure that the
latter was comprehending him.

"Perfectly, perfectly," said Poirot, nodding.

"The name of the horse," said M. Papopolous, leaning back and joining
the tips of his fingers together, "is the Marquis. I think, but I am
not sure, that it is an English horse, eh, Zia?"

"I think so too," said the girl.

Poirot got up briskly.

"I thank you, Monsieur," he said. "It is a great thing to have what
the English call a tip from the stable. Au revoir, Monsieur, and many
thanks."

He turned to the girl.

"Au revoir, Mademoiselle Zia. It seems to me but yesterday that I saw
you in Paris. One would say that two years had passed at most."

"There is a difference between sixteen and thirty-three," said Zia
ruefully.

"Not in your case," declared Poirot gallantly. "You and your father
will perhaps dine with me one night."

"We shall be delighted," replied Zia.

"Then we will arrange it," declared Poirot, "and now--_je me sauve_."

Poirot walked along the street humming a little tune to himself. He
twirled his stick with a jaunty air, once or twice he smiled to himself
quietly. He turned into the first Bureau de Poste he came to and sent
off a telegram. He took some time in wording it, but it was in code and
he had to call upon his memory. It purported to deal with a missing
scarf-pin, and was addressed to Inspector Japp, Scotland Yard.

Decoded, it was short and to the point. "_Wire me everything known
about man whose soubriquet is the Marquis._"




                           23. A New Theory


It was exactly eleven o'clock when Poirot presented himself at Van
Aldin's hotel. He found the millionaire alone.

"You are punctual, M. Poirot," he said, with a smile, as he rose to
greet the detective.

"I am always punctual," said Poirot. "The exactitude--always do I
observe it. Without order and method--"

He broke off. "Ah, but it is possible that I have said these things to
you before. Let us come at once to the object of my visit."

"Your little idea?"

"Yes, my little idea." Poirot smiled.

"First of all, Monsieur. I should like to interview once more the maid,
Ada Mason. She is here?"

"Yes, she's here."

"Ah!"


Van Aldin looked at him curiously. He rang the bell, and a messenger
was dispatched to find Mason.

Poirot greeted her with his usual politeness, which was never without
effect on that particular class.

"Good afternoon, Mademoiselle," he said cheerfully. "Be seated, will
you not, if Monsieur permits."

"Yes, yes, sit down, my girl," said Van Aldin.

"Thank you, sir," said Mason primly, and she sat down on the extreme
edge of a chair. She looked bonier and more acid than ever.

"I have come to ask you yet more questions," said Poirot. "We must get
to the bottom of this affair. Always I return to the question of the
man in the train. You have been shown the Comte de la Roche. You say
that it is possible he was the man, but you are not sure."

"As I told you, sir, I never saw the gentleman's face. That is what
makes it so difficult."

Poirot beamed and nodded.

"Precisely, exactly. I comprehend well the difficulty. Now,
Mademoiselle, you have been in the service of Madame Kettering two
months, you say. During that time, how often did you see your master?"

Mason reflected a minute or two, and then said:

"Only twice, sir."

"And was that near to, or far away?"

"Well once, sir, he came to Curzon Street. I was upstairs, and I looked
over the banisters and saw him in the hall below. I was a bit curious
like, you understand, knowing the way things--er--were." Mason finished
up with her discreet cough.

"And the other time?"

"I was in the Park, sir, with Annie--one of the housemaids, sir, and
she pointed out the master to me walking with a foreign lady."

Again Poirot nodded.

"Now listen, Mason, this man whom you saw in the carriage talking to
your mistress at the Gare de Lyon, how do you know it was not your
master?"

"The master, sir? Oh, I don't think it could have been."

"But you are not sure," Poirot persisted.

"Well--I never thought of it, sir."

Mason was clearly upset at the idea.

"You have heard that your master was also on the train. What more
natural than that it should be he who came along the corridor."

"But the gentleman who was talking to the mistress must have come from
outside, sir. He was dressed for the street. In an overcoat and soft
hat."

"Just so, Mademoiselle, but reflect a minute. The train has just
arrived at the Gare de Lyon. Many of the passengers promenade
themselves upon the quay. Your mistress was about to do so, and for
that purpose had doubtless put on her fur coat, eh?"

"Yes, sir," agreed Mason.

"Your master, then, does the same. The train is heated, but outside
in the station it is cold. He puts on his overcoat and his hat and he
walks along beside the train, and looking up at the lighted windows
he suddenly sees Madame Kettering. Until then he has had no idea that
she was on the train. Naturally, he mounts the carriage and goes to
her compartment. She gives an exclamation of surprise at seeing him
and quickly shuts the door between the two compartments since it is
possible that their conversation may be of a private nature."

He leaned back in his chair and watched the suggestion slowly take
effect. No one knew better than Hercule Poirot that the class to which
Mason belongs cannot be hurried. He must give her time to get rid of
her own preconceived ideas. At the end of three minutes she spoke:

"Well, of course, sir, it might be so. I never thought of it that way.
The master is tall and dark, and just about that build. It was seeing
the hat and coat that made me say it was a gentleman from outside. Yes,
it might have been the master. I would not like to say either way, I am
sure."

"Thank you very much, Mademoiselle. I shall not require you any
further. Ah, just one thing more." He took from his pocket the
cigarette case he had already shown to Katherine. "Is that your
mistress's case?" he said to Mason.

"No, sir, it is not the mistress's--at least--"

She looked suddenly startled. An idea was clearly working its way to
the forefront of her mind.

"Yes," said Poirot encouragingly.

"I think, sir--I can't be sure, but I think--it is a case that the
mistress bought to give to the master."

"Ah," said Poirot in a non-committal manner.

"But whether she ever did give it to him or not, I can't say, of
course."

"Precisely," said Poirot, "precisely. That is all, I think,
Mademoiselle. I wish you good afternoon."

Ada Mason retired discreetly, closing the door noiselessly behind her.

Poirot looked across at Van Aldin, a faint smile upon his face. The
millionaire looked thunderstruck.

"You think--you think it was Derek?" he queried, "but--everything
points the other way. Why, the Count has actually been caught redhanded
with the jewels on him."

"No."

"But you told me--"

"What did I tell you?"

"That story about the jewels. You showed them to me."

"No."

Van Aldin stared at him.

"You mean to say you didn't show them to me."

"No."

"Yesterday--at the tennis?"

"No."

"Are you crazy, M. Poirot, or am I?"

"Neither of us is crazy," said the detective. "You ask me a question;
I answer it. You say have I not shown you the jewels yesterday?
I reply--no. What I showed you, M. Van Aldin, was a first-class
imitation, hardly to be distinguished except by an expert from the real
ones."




                        24. Poirot Gives Advice


It took the millionaire some few minutes to take the thing in. He
stared at Poirot as though dumbfounded. The little Belgian nodded at
him gently.

"Yes," he said, "it alters the position, does it not?"

"Imitation!"

He leaned forward.

"All along, M. Poirot, you have had this idea? All along this is what
you have been driving at? You never believed that the Comte de la Roche
was the murderer?"

"I have had doubts," said Poirot quietly. "I said as much to
you. Robbery with violence and murder"--he shook his head
energetically--"no, it is difficult to picture. It does not harmonize
with the personality of the Comte de la Roche."

"But you believe that he meant to steal the rubies?"

"Certainly. There is no doubt as to that. See, I will recount to you
the affair as I see it. The Comte knew of the rubies and he laid
his plans accordingly. He made up a romantic story of a book he was
writing, so as to induce your daughter to bring them with her. He
provided himself with an exact duplicate. It is clear, is it not,
that substitution is what he was after. Madame, your daughter, was
not an expert on jewels. It would probably be a long time before she
discovered what had occurred. When she did so--well--I do not think she
would prosecute the Comte. Too much would come out. He would have in
his possession various letters of hers. Oh yes, a very safe scheme from
the Comte's point of view--one that he has probably carried out before."

"It seems clear enough, yes," said Van Aldin musingly.

"It accords with the personality of the Comte de la Roche," said Poirot.

"Yes, but now--" Van Aldin looked searchingly at the other. "What
actually happened? Tell me that, M. Poirot."

Poirot shrugged his shoulders.

"It is quite simple," he said; "some one stepped in ahead of the Comte."

There was a long pause.

Van Aldin seemed to be turning things over in his mind. When he spoke
it was without beating about the bush.

"How long have you suspected my son-in-law, M. Poirot?"

"From the very first. He had the motive and the opportunity. Every one
took for granted that the man in Madame's compartment in Paris was the
Comte de la Roche. I thought so, too. Then you happened to mention
that you had once mistaken the Comte for your son-in-law. That told me
that they were of the same height and build, and alike in colouring.
It put some curious ideas in my head. The maid had only been with
your daughter a short time. It was unlikely that she would know Mr.
Kettering well by sight, since he had not been living in Curzon Street;
also the man was careful to keep his face turned away."

"You believe he--murdered her," said Van Aldin hoarsely.

Poirot raised a hand quickly.

"No, no, I did not say that--but it is a possibility--a very strong
possibility. He was in a tight corner, a very tight corner, threatened
with ruin. This was the one way out."

"But why take the jewels?"

"To make the crime appear an ordinary one committed by train robbers.
Otherwise suspicion might have fallen on him straight away."

"If that is so, what has he done with the rubies?"

"That remains to be seen. There are several possibilities. There is
a man in Nice who may be able to help, the man I pointed out at the
tennis."

He rose to his feet and Van Aldin rose also and laid his hand on the
little man's shoulder. His voice when he spoke was harsh with emotion.

"Find Ruth's murderer for me," he said, "that is all I ask."

Poirot drew himself up.

"Leave it in the hands of Hercule Poirot," he said superbly; "have no
fears. I will discover the truth."

He brushed a speck of fluff from his hat, smiled reassuringly at the
millionaire, and left the room. Nevertheless, as he went down the
stairs some of the confidence faded from his face.

"It is all very well," he murmured to himself, "but there are
difficulties. Yes, there are great difficulties." As he was passing out
of the hotel he came to a sudden halt. A car had drawn up in front of
the door. In it was Katherine Grey, and Derek Kettering was standing
beside it talking to her earnestly. A minute or two later the car drove
off and Derek remained standing on the pavement looking after it. The
expression on his face was an odd one. He gave a sudden impatient
gesture of the shoulders, sighed deeply, and turned to find Hercule
Poirot standing at his elbow. In spite of himself he started. The two
men looked at each other. Poirot steadily and unwaveringly and Derek
with a kind of light-hearted defiance. There was a sneer behind the
easy mockery of his tone when he spoke, raising his eyebrows slightly
as he did so.

"Rather a dear, isn't she?" he asked easily.

His manner was perfectly natural.

"Yes," said Poirot thoughtfully, "that describes Mademoiselle Katherine
very well. It is very English, that phrase there, and Mademoiselle
Katherine, she also is very English."

Derek remained perfectly still without answering.

"And yet she is _sympathique_, is it not so?"

"Yes," said Derek; "there are not many like her."

He spoke softly, almost as though to himself. Poirot nodded
significantly. Then he leant towards the other and spoke in a different
tone, a quiet, grave tone that was new to Derek Kettering.

"You will pardon an old man, Monsieur, if he says to you something that
you may consider impertinent. There is one of your English proverbs
that I would quote to you. It says that 'it is well to be off with the
old love, before being on with the new.'"

Kettering turned on him angrily.

"What the devil do you mean?"

"You enrage yourself at me," said Poirot placidly. "I expected as much.
As to what I mean--I mean, Monsieur, that there is a second car with a
lady in it. If you turn your head you will see her."

Derek spun round. His face darkened with anger.

"Mirelle, damn her!" he muttered. "I will soon--"

Poirot arrested the movement he was about to make.

"Is it wise what you are about to do there?" he asked warningly. His
eyes shone softly with a green light in them. But Derek was past
noticing the warning signs. In his anger he was completely off his
guard.

"I have broken with her utterly, and she knows it," cried Derek angrily.

"You have broken with her, yes, but has _she_ broken with you?"

Derek gave a sudden harsh laugh.

"She won't break with two million pounds if she can help it," he
murmured brutally; "trust Mirelle for that."

Poirot raised his eyebrows.

"You have the outlook cynical," he murmured.

"Have I?" There was no mirth in his sudden wide smile. "I have lived
in the world long enough, M. Poirot, to know that all women are pretty
much alike." His face softened suddenly. "All save one."

He met Poirot's gaze defiantly. A look of alertness crept into his
eyes, then faded again. "That one," he said, and jerked his head in the
direction of Cap Martin.

"Ah!" said Poirot.

This quiescence was well calculated to provoke the impetuous
temperament of the other.

