"Why, of course, Light said so!"

"Where are the Dead?" asked Mytyl.

Tyltyl cast a frightened look around him, for the Children had not
dared to stir since they were alone:

"The Dead are here," he said, "under the grass or under those big
stones."

"Are those the doors of their houses?" asked Mytyl, pointing to the
tombstones.

"Yes."

"Do they go out when it's fine?"

"They can only go out at night."

"Why?"

"Because they are in their night-shirts."

"Do they go out also when it rains?"

"When it rains, they stay at home."

"Is it nice in their homes?"

"They say it's very cramped."

"Have they any little children?"

"Why, yes, they have all those who die."

"And what do they live on?"

Tyltyl stopped to think, before answering. As Mytyl's big brother, he
felt it his duty to know everything; but her questions often puzzled
him. Then he reflected that, as the Dead live under ground, they can
hardly eat anything that is above it; and so he answered very
positively:

"They eat roots!"

Mytyl was quite satisfied and returned to the great question that was
occupying her little mind:

"Shall we see them?" she asked.

"Of course," said Tyltyl, "we see everything when I turn the diamond."

"And what will they say?"

Tyltyl began to grow impatient:

"They will say nothing, as they don't talk."

"Why don't they talk?" asked Mytyl.

"Because they have nothing to say," said Tyltyl, more cross and
perplexed than ever.

"Why have they nothing to say?"

This time, the little big brother lost all patience. He shrugged his
shoulders, gave Mytyl a push and shouted angrily:

"You're a nuisance!..."

Mytyl was greatly upset and confused. She sucked her thumb and
resolved to hold her tongue for ever after, as she had been so badly
treated! But a breath of wind made the leaves of the trees whisper and
suddenly recalled the Children to their fears and their sense of
loneliness. They hugged each other tight and began to talk again, so
as not to hear the horrible silence:

"When will you turn the diamond?" asked Mytyl.

"You heard Light say that I was to wait until midnight, because that
disturbs them less; it is when they come out to take the air...."

"Isn't it midnight yet...."

Tyltyl turned round, saw the church clock and hardly had the strength
to answer, for the hands were just upon the hour:

"Listen," he stammered, "listen.... It is just going to strike....
There!... Do you hear?..."

And the clock struck twelve.

Then Mytyl, frightened out of her life, began to stamp her feet and
utter piercing screams:

"I want to go away!... I want to go away!..."

Tyltyl, though stiff with fright, was able to say:

"Not now.... I am going to turn the diamond...."

"No, no, no!" cried Mytyl. "I am so frightened, little brother!...
Don't do it!... I want to go away!..."

Tyltyl vainly tried to lift his hand: he could not reach the diamond
with Mytyl clinging to him, hanging with all her weight on her
brother's arm and screaming at the top of her voice:

"I don't want to see the Dead!... They will be awful!... I can't
possibly!... I am much too frightened!..."

Poor Tyltyl was quite as much terrified as Mytyl, but at each trial,
his will and courage were becoming greater; he was learning to master
himself; and nothing could induce him to fail in his mission. The
eleventh stroke rang out.

"The hour is passing!" he exclaimed. "It is time!"

And releasing himself resolutely from Mytyl's arms, he turned the
diamond....

A moment of terrible silence followed for the poor little children.
Then they saw the crosses totter, the mounds open, the slabs rise
up....

Mytyl hid her face against Tyltyl's chest:

"They're coming out!" she cried. "They're there!... They're
there!..."

The agony was more than the plucky little fellow could endure. He shut
his eyes and only kept himself from fainting by leaning against a tree
beside him. He remained like that for a minute that seemed to him like
a century, not daring to move, not daring to breathe. Then he heard
birds singing; a warm and scented breeze fanned his face; and, on his
hands, on his neck, he felt the soft heat of the balmy summer sun. Now
quite reassured, but unable to believe in so great a miracle, he
opened his eyes and at once began to shout with happiness and
admiration.

From all the open tombs came thousands of splendid flowers. They
spread everywhere, on the paths, on the trees, on the grass; and they
went up and up until it seemed that they would touch the sky. They
were great full-blown roses, showing their hearts, wonderful golden
hearts from which came the hot, bright rays which had wrapped Tyltyl
in that summer warmth. Round the roses, birds sang and bees buzzed
gaily.

"I can't believe it! It's not possible!" said Tyltyl. "What has become
of the tombs and the stone crosses?"

Dazzled and bewildered, the two children walked hand in hand through
the graveyard, of which not a trace remained, for there was nothing
but a wonderful garden on every side. They were as glad and happy as
could be, after their terrible fright. They had thought that ugly
skeletons would rise from the earth and run after them, pulling horrid
faces; they had imagined all sorts of awful things. And now, in the
presence of the truth, they saw that all that they had been told was a
great big story and that Death does not exist. They saw that there are
no Dead and that Life goes on always, always, but under fresh forms.
The fading rose sheds its pollen, which gives birth to other roses,
and its scattered petals scent the air. The fruits come when the
blossoms fall from the trees; and the dingy, hairy caterpillar turns
into a brilliant butterfly. Nothing perishes ... there are only
changes....

Beautiful birds circled all round Tyltyl and Mytyl. There were no blue
ones among them, but the two Children were so glad of their discovery
that they asked for nothing more. Astonished and delighted, they kept
on repeating:

"There are no Dead!... There are no Dead!..."




CHAPTER VIII

THE FOREST


As soon as Tyltyl and Mytyl were in bed, Light kissed them and faded
away at once, so as not to disturb their sleep with the rays that
always streamed from her beautiful self.

It must have been about midnight, when Tyltyl, who was dreaming of the
little Blue Children, felt a soft velvet paw pass to and fro over his
face. He was surprised and sat up in bed in a bit of a fright; but he
was soon reassured when he saw his friend Tylette's glowing eyes
glittering in the dark.

"Hush!" said the Cat in his ear. "Hush! Don't wake anybody. If we can
arrange to slip out without being seen, we shall catch the Blue Bird
to-night. I have risked my life, O my dearest master, in preparing a
plan which will certainly lead us to victory!"

"But," said the boy, kissing Tylette, "Light would be so glad to help
us ... and besides I should be ashamed to disobey her...."

"If you tell her," said the Cat, sharply, "all is lost, believe me. Do
as I say; and the day is ours."

As she spoke these words, she hastened to dress him and also Mytyl,
who had heard a noise and was asking to go with them.

"You don't understand," groaned Tyltyl. "You are too small: you don't
know what a wicked thing we are doing...."

But the treacherous Cat answered all his arguments, saying that the
reason why he had not found the Blue Bird so far was just the fault of
Light, who always brought brightness with her. Let the Children only
go hunting by themselves, in the dark, and they would soon find all
the Blue Birds that make men's happiness. The traitress displayed such
cleverness that, before long, Tyltyl's disobedience became a very fine
thing in his own eyes. Each of Tylette's words provided a good excuse
for his action or adorned it with a generous thought. He was too weak
to set his will against trickery, allowed himself to be persuaded and
walked out of the temple with a firm and cheerful step. Poor little
fellow: if he could only have foreseen the terrible trap that awaited
him!

Our three companions set out across the fields in the white light of
the moon. The Cat seemed greatly excited, did nothing but talk and
went so fast that the children were hardly able to keep up with her:

"This time," she declared, "we shall have the Blue Bird, I am sure of
it! I asked all the Trees in the very oldest forest; they know him,
because he hides among them. Then, in order to have everybody there, I
sent the Rabbit to beat the assembly and call the principal Animals in
the country."

old time enemy. She quivered with rage: was he once more going to
thwart her plans? Had he guessed her secret? Was he coming, at
there's an end of it.... You're a nuisance, there!..."

The Dog was an obedient animal and, at any other time, he would have
gone; but his affection told him what a serious business it was and he
stood stock still.

"Do you allow this disobedience?" said the Cat to Tyltyl, in a
whisper. "Hit him with your stick."

Tyltyl beat the Dog, as the Cat suggested:

"There, that will teach you to be more obedient!" he said.

The poor Dog howled at receiving the blows; but there was no limit to
his self-sacrifice. He went up to his young master pluckily and,
taking him in his arms, cried:

"I must kiss you now you've beaten me!"

Tyltyl, who was a good-hearted little fellow, did not know what to do;
and the Cat swore between her teeth like a wild beast. Fortunately,
dear little Mytyl interfered on our friend's behalf:

"No, no; I want him to stay," she pleaded. "I'm frightened when Tyl√¥'s
not with us."

Time was short and they had to come to a decision.

"I'll find some other way to get rid of the idiot!" thought the Cat.
And, turning to the Dog, she said, in her most gracious manner, "We
shall be _so_ pleased if you will join us!"

As they entered the great forest, the Children stuck close together,
with the Cat and the Dog on either side of them. They were awed by the
silence and the darkness and they felt much relieved when the Cat
exclaimed:

"Here we are! Turn the diamond!"

Then the light spread around them and showed them a wonderful sight.
They were standing in the middle of a large round space in the heart
of the forest, where all the old, old Trees seemed to reach up to the
sky. Wide avenues formed a white star amidst the dark green of the
wood. Everything was peaceful and still; but suddenly a strange shiver
ran through the foliage; the branches moved and stretched like human
arms; the roots raised the earth that covered them, came together,
took the shapes of legs and feet and stood on the ground; a tremendous
crash rang through the air; the trunks of the Trees burst open and
each of them let out its soul, which made its appearance like a funny
human figure.

Some stepped slowly from their trunks; others came out with a jump;
and all of them gathered inquisitively round our friends.

The talkative Poplar began to chatter like a magpie:

"Little Men! We shall be able to talk to them! We have done with
silence!... Where do they come from?... Who are they?"

And so he rattled on.

The Lime-tree, who was a jolly, fat fellow, came up calmly, smoking
his pipe; the conceited and dandified Chestnut-tree screwed his glass
into his eye to stare at the Children. He wore a coat of green silk
embroidered with pink and white flowers. He thought the little ones
too poor-looking and turned away in derision.

"He thinks he's everybody, since he has taken to living in town! He
despises us!" sneered the Poplar, who was jealous of him.

"Oh, dear, oh, dear!" wept the Willow, a wretched little stunted
fellow, who came clattering along in a pair of wooden shoes too big
for him. "They have come to cut off my head and arms for firewood!"

Tyltyl could not believe his eyes. He never stopped asking the Cat
questions:

"Who's this?... Who's that?..."

And Tylette introduced the soul of each Tree to him.

There was the Elm, who was a sort of short-winded, paunchy, crabby
gnome; the Beech, an elegant, sprightly person; the Birch, who looked
like the ghosts in the Palace of Night, with his white flowing
garments and his restless gestures. The tallest figure was the
Fir-tree: Tyltyl found it very difficult to see his face perched right
at the top of his long, thin body; but he looked gentle and sad,
whereas the Cypress, who stood near him, dressed all in black,
frightened Tyltyl terribly.

However, so far nothing very dreadful had happened. The Trees,
delighted at being able to talk, were all chattering together; and our
young friend was simply going to ask them where the Blue Bird was
hidden, when, all of a sudden, silence reigned. The Trees bowed
respectfully and stood aside to make way for an immensely old Tree,
dressed in a long gown embroidered with moss and lichen. He leaned
with one hand on a stick and with the other on a young Oak Sapling who
acted as his guide, for the Old Oak was blind. His long white beard
streamed in the wind.

"It's the King!" said Tyltyl to himself, when he saw his mistletoe
crown. "I will ask him the secret of the forest."

And he was just going up to him, when he stopped, seized with surprise
and joy: there sat the Blue Bird before him, perched on the old Oak's
shoulder.

"He has the Blue Bird!" cried the boy, gleefully. "Quick! Quick! Give
him to me!"

"Silence! Hold your tongue!" said the greatly shocked Trees.

"Take off your hat, Tyltyl," said the Cat. "It's the Oak!"

The poor Child at once obeyed with a smile; he did not understand the
danger that threatened him and he did not hesitate to answer, "Yes,
Sir," when the Oak asked him if he was Tyl the woodcutter's son.

Then the Oak, trembling with rage, began to lay a terrible charge
against Daddy Tyl:

"In my family alone," he said, "your father has put to death six
hundred of my sons, four hundred and seventy-five uncles and aunts,
twelve hundred cousins of both sexes, three hundred and eighty
daughters-in-law and twelve thousand great-grandsons!"

No doubt his anger made him exaggerate a little; but Tyltyl listened
without protest and said, very politely:

"I beg your pardon, Sir, for disturbing you.... The Cat said that you
would tell us where the Blue Bird is."

The Oak was too old not to know all there was to know about Men and
Animals. He smiled in his beard when he guessed the trap laid by the
Cat and he felt very glad at it, for he had long wished to revenge the
whole forest for the slavery to which Man had subjected it.

"It's for the Fairy B√©rylune's little girl, who is very ill," the boy
continued.

"Enough!" said the Oak, silencing him. "I do not hear the Animals....
Where are they?... All this concerns them as much as us.... We, the
Trees, must not assume the responsibility alone for the grave measures
that have become necessary."

"Here they come!" said the Fir-tree, looking over the top of the other
Trees. "They are following the Rabbit.... I can see the souls of the
Horse, the Bull, the Ox, the Cow, the Wolf, the Sheep, the Pig, the
Goat, and the Bear...."

All the Animals now arrived. They walked on their hind-legs and were
dressed like human beings. They solemnly took up their positions in a
circle among the Trees, all except the frivolous Goat, who began to
skip down the avenues, and the Pig, who hoped to find some glorious
truffles among the roots that had newly left the ground.

"Are all here present?" asked the Oak.

"The Hen could not leave her eggs," said the Rabbit, "the Hare was out
for a run, the Stag has pains in his horns and his corns, the Fox is
ill--here is the doctor's certificate--the Goose did not understand
and the Turkey flew into a passion...."

"Look!" whispered Tyltyl to Mytyl. "Aren't they funny? They are just
like the rich children's fine toys in the windows at Christmas-time."

The Rabbit especially made them laugh, with his cocked hat over his
big ears, his blue, embroidered coat and his drum slung in front of
him.

Meanwhile, the Oak was explaining the situation to his brothers the
Trees and to the Animals. Treacherous Tylette had been quite right in
reckoning on their hatred.

"The child you see before you," said the Oak, "thanks to a talisman
stolen from the powers of Earth, is able to take possession of our
Blue Bird and thus to snatch from us the secret which we have kept
since the origin of life.... Now we know enough of Man to entertain no
doubt as to the fate which he reserves for us, once he is in
possession of this secret.... Any hesitation would be both foolish and
criminal.... It is a serious moment; the child must be done away with
before it is too late...."

"What is he saying?" asked Tyltyl, who could not make out what the old
Tree was driving at.

The Dog was prowling round the Oak and now showed his fangs:

"Do you see my teeth, you old cripple?" he growled.

"He is insulting the Oak!" said the Beech indignantly.

"Drive him out!" shouted the Oak, angrily. "He's a traitor!"

"What did I tell you?" whispered the Cat to Tyltyl. "I will arrange
things.... But send him away."

"Will you be off!" said Tyltyl to the Dog.

"Do let me worry the gouty old beggar's moss slippers!" begged Tyl√¥.

Tyltyl tried in vain to prevent him. The rage of Tyl√¥, who understood
the danger, knew no bounds; and he would have succeeded in saving his
master, if the Cat had not thought of calling in the Ivy, who till
then had kept his distance. The Dog pranced about like a madman,
abusing everybody. He railed at the Ivy:

"Come on, if you dare, you old ball of twine, you!"

The onlookers growled; the Oak was pale with fury at seeing his
authority denied; the Trees and the Animals were indignant, but, as
they were cowards, not one of them dared protest; and the Dog would
have settled all of them, if he had gone on with his rebellion. But
Tyltyl threatened him harshly; and, suddenly yielding to his docile
instincts, Tyl√¥ lay down at his master's feet. Thus it is that our
finest virtues are treated as faults, when we exercise them without
discrimination.

From that moment, the Children were lost. The Ivy gagged and bound
the poor Dog, who was then taken behind the Chestnut-tree and tied to
his biggest root.

"Now," cried the Oak, in a voice of thunder, "we can take counsel
quietly.... This is the first time that it is given us to judge Man! I
do not think that, after the monstrous injustice which we have
suffered, there can remain the least doubt as to the sentence that
awaits him...."

One cry rang from every throat:

"Death! Death! Death!"

The poor Children did not at first understand their doom, for the
Trees and Animals, who were more accustomed to talking their own
special language, did not speak very distinctly; and, besides, the
innocent Children could never imagine such cruelty!

"What is the matter with them?" asked the boy. "Are they displeased?"

"Don't be alarmed," said the Cat. "They are a little annoyed because
Spring is late...."

And she went on talking into Tyltyl's ear, to divert his attention
from what was happening.

While the trusting lad was listening to her fibs, the others were
discussing which form of execution would be the most practical and the
least dangerous. The Bull suggested a good butt with the horns; the
Beech offered his highest branch to hang the little Children on; and
the Ivy was already preparing a slip-knot! The Fir-tree was willing to
give the four planks for the coffin and the Cypress the perpetual
grant of a tomb.

"By far the simplest way," whispered the Willow, "would be to drown
them in one of my rivers."

And the Pig grunted between his teeth:

"In my opinion, the great thing would be to eat the little girl....
She ought to be very tender...."

"Silence!" roared the Oak. "What we have to decide is which of us
shall have the honour of striking the first blow!"

"That honour falls to you, our King!" said the Fir-tree.

"Alas, I am too old!" replied the Oak. "I am blind and infirm! To you,
my evergreen brother, be the glory, in my place, of striking the
decisive blow that shall set us free."

But the Fir-tree declined the honour on the pretext that he was
already to have the pleasure of burying the two victims and that he
was afraid of rousing jealousy. He suggested the Beech, as owning the
best club.

"It is out of the question," said the Beech. "You know I am
worm-eaten! Ask the Elm and the Cypress."

Thereupon the Elm began to moan and groan: a mole had twisted his
great toe the night before and he could hardly stand upright; and the
Cypress excused himself and so did the Poplar, who declared that he
was ill and shivering with fever. Then the Oak's indignation flared
up:

"You are afraid of Man!" he exclaimed. "Even those unprotected and
unarmed little Children inspire you with terror!... Well, I shall go
forth alone, old and shaky and blind as I am, against the hereditary
enemy!... Where is he?..."

And groping his way with his stick, he moved towards Tyltyl, growling
as he went.

Our poor little friend had been very much afraid during the last few
minutes. The Cat had left him suddenly, saying that she wanted to
smooth down the excitement, and had not come back. Mytyl nestled
trembling against him; and he felt very lonely, very unhappy among
those dreadful people whose anger he was beginning to notice. When he
saw the Oak marching on him with a threatening air, he drew his
pocket-knife and defied him like a man:

"Is it I he's after, that old one, with his big stick?" he cried.

But, at the sight of the knife, Man's irresistible weapon, all the
Trees shook with fright and rushed at the Oak to hold him back. There
was a struggle; and the old King, conquered by the weight of years,
threw away his stick:

"Shame on us!" he shouted. "Shame on us! Let the Animals deliver
us!..."

The Animals were only waiting for this! All wanted to be revenged
together. Fortunately, their very eagerness caused a scrimmage which
delayed the murder of the dear little ones.

Mytyl uttered piercing screams.

No doubt his anger made him exaggerate a little; but Tyltyl listened
without protest and said, very politely:

"I beg your pardon, Sir, for disturbing you.... The Cat said that you
would tell us where the Blue Bird is."

The Oak was too old not to know all there was to know about Men and
Animals. He smiled in his beard when he guessed the trap laid by the
Cat and he felt very glad at it, for he had long wished to revenge the
whole forest for the slavery to which Man had subjected it.

"It's for the Fairy B√©rylune's little girl, who is very ill," the boy
continued.

"Enough!" said the Oak, silencing him. "I do not hear the Animals....
Where are they?... All this concerns them as much as us.... We, the
Trees, must not assume the responsibility alone for the grave measures
that have become necessary."

"Here they come!" said the Fir-tree, looking over the top of the other
Trees. "They are following the Rabbit.... I can see the souls of the
Horse, the Bull, the Ox, the Cow, the Wolf, the Sheep, the Pig, the
Goat, and the Bear...."

All the Animals now arrived. They walked on their hind-legs and were
dressed like human beings. They solemnly took up their positions in a
circle among the Trees, all except the frivolous Goat, who began to
skip down the avenues, and the Pig, who hoped to find some glorious
truffles among the roots that had newly left the ground.

"Are all here present?" asked the Oak.

"The Hen could not leave her eggs," said the Rabbit, "the Hare was out
for a run, the Stag has pains in his horns and his corns, the Fox is
ill--here is the doctor's certificate--the Goose did not understand
and the Turkey flew into a passion...."

"Look!" whispered Tyltyl to Mytyl. "Aren't they funny? They are just
like the rich children's fine toys in the windows at Christmas-time."

The Rabbit especially made them laugh, with his cocked hat over his
big ears, his blue, embroidered coat and his drum slung in front of
him.

Meanwhile, the Oak was explaining the situation to his brothers the
Trees and to the Animals. Treacherous Tylette had been quite right in
reckoning on their hatred.

"The child you see before you," said the Oak, "thanks to a talisman
stolen from the powers of Earth, is able to take possession of our
Blue Bird and thus to snatch from us the secret which we have kept
since the origin of life.... Now we know enough of Man to entertain no
doubt as to the fate which he reserves for us, once he is in
possession of this secret.... Any hesitation would be both foolish and
criminal.... It is a serious moment; the child must be done away with
before it is too late...."

"What is he saying?" asked Tyltyl, who could not make out what the old
Tree was driving at.

The Dog was prowling round the Oak and now showed his fangs:

"Do you see my teeth, you old cripple?" he growled.

"He is insulting the Oak!" said the Beech indignantly.

"Drive him out!" shouted the Oak, angrily. "He's a traitor!"

"What did I tell you?" whispered the Cat to Tyltyl. "I will arrange
things.... But send him away."

"Will you be off!" said Tyltyl to the Dog.

"Do let me worry the gouty old beggar's moss slippers!" begged Tyl√¥.

Tyltyl tried in vain to prevent him. The rage of Tyl√¥, who understood
the danger, knew no bounds; and he would have succeeded in saving his
master, if the Cat had not thought of calling in the Ivy, who till
then had kept his distance. The Dog pranced about like a madman,
abusing everybody. He railed at the Ivy:

"Come on, if you dare, you old ball of twine, you!"

The onlookers growled; the Oak was pale with fury at seeing his
authority denied; the Trees and the Animals were indignant, but, as
they were cowards, not one of them dared protest; and the Dog would
have settled all of them, if he had gone on with his rebellion. But
Tyltyl threatened him harshly; and, suddenly yielding to his docile
instincts, Tyl√¥ lay down at his master's feet. Thus it is that our
finest virtues are treated as faults, when we exercise them without
discrimination.

From that moment, the Children were lost. The Ivy gagged and bound
the poor Dog, who was then taken behind the Chestnut-tree and tied to
his biggest root.

"Now," cried the Oak, in a voice of thunder, "we can take counsel
quietly.... This is the first time that it is given us to judge Man! I
do not think that, after the monstrous injustice which we have
suffered, there can remain the least doubt as to the sentence that
awaits him...."

One cry rang from every throat:

"Death! Death! Death!"

The poor Children did not at first understand their doom, for the
Trees and Animals, who were more accustomed to talking their own
special language, did not speak very distinctly; and, besides, the
innocent Children could never imagine such cruelty!

"What is the matter with them?" asked the boy. "Are they displeased?"

"Don't be alarmed," said the Cat. "They are a little annoyed because
Spring is late...."

And she went on talking into Tyltyl's ear, to divert his attention
from what was happening.

While the trusting lad was listening to her fibs, the others were
discussing which form of execution would be the most practical and the
least dangerous. The Bull suggested a good butt with the horns; the
Beech offered his highest branch to hang the little Children on; and
the Ivy was already preparing a slip-knot! The Fir-tree was willing to
give the four planks for the coffin and the Cypress the perpetual
grant of a tomb.

"By far the simplest way," whispered the Willow, "would be to drown
them in one of my rivers."

And the Pig grunted between his teeth:

"In my opinion, the great thing would be to eat the little girl....
She ought to be very tender...."

"Silence!" roared the Oak. "What we have to decide is which of us
shall have the honour of striking the first blow!"

"That honour falls to you, our King!" said the Fir-tree.

"Alas, I am too old!" replied the Oak. "I am blind and infirm! To you,
my evergreen brother, be the glory, in my place, of striking the
decisive blow that shall set us free."

But the Fir-tree declined the honour on the pretext that he was
already to have the pleasure of burying the two victims and that he
was afraid of rousing jealousy. He suggested the Beech, as owning the
best club.

"It is out of the question," said the Beech. "You know I am
worm-eaten! Ask the Elm and the Cypress."

Thereupon the Elm began to moan and groan: a mole had twisted his
great toe the night before and he could hardly stand upright; and the
Cypress excused himself and so did the Poplar, who declared that he
was ill and shivering with fever. Then the Oak's indignation flared
up:

"You are afraid of Man!" he exclaimed. "Even those unprotected and
unarmed little Children inspire you with terror!... Well, I shall go
forth alone, old and shaky and blind as I am, against the hereditary
enemy!... Where is he?..."

And groping his way with his stick, he moved towards Tyltyl, growling
as he went.

Our poor little friend had been very much afraid during the last few
minutes. The Cat had left him suddenly, saying that she wanted to
smooth down the excitement, and had not come back. Mytyl nestled
trembling against him; and he felt very lonely, very unhappy among
those dreadful people whose anger he was beginning to notice. When he
saw the Oak marching on him with a threatening air, he drew his
pocket-knife and defied him like a man:

"Is it I he's after, that old one, with his big stick?" he cried.

But, at the sight of the knife, Man's irresistible weapon, all the
Trees shook with fright and rushed at the Oak to hold him back. There
was a struggle; and the old King, conquered by the weight of years,
threw away his stick:

"Shame on us!" he shouted. "Shame on us! Let the Animals deliver
us!..."

The Animals were only waiting for this! All wanted to be revenged
together. Fortunately, their very eagerness caused a scrimmage which
delayed the murder of the dear little ones.

Mytyl uttered piercing screams.

"Don't be afraid," said Tyltyl, doing his best to protect her. "I have
my knife."

"The little chap means to die game!" said the Cock.

"That's the one I shall eat first," said the Pig, eyeing Mytyl
greedily.

"What have I done to all of you?" asked Tyltyl.

"Nothing at all, my little man," said the Sheep. "Eaten my little
brother, my two sisters, my three uncles, my aunt, my grandpapa and my
grandmamma.... Wait, wait, when you're down, you shall see that I have
teeth also...."

And so the Sheep and the Horse, who were the greatest cowards, waited
for the little fellow to be knocked down before they dared take their
share in the spoil.

While they were talking, the Wolf and the Bear treacherously attacked
Tyltyl from behind and pushed him over. It was an awful moment. All
the Animals, seeing him on the ground, tried to get at him. The boy
raised himself to one knee and brandished his knife. Mytyl uttered
yells of distress; and, to crown all, it suddenly became dark.

Tyltyl called wildly for assistance:

"Help! Help!... Tyl√¥! Tyl√¥!... To the rescue!... Where is Tylette?...
Come! Come!..."

The Cat's voice was heard in the distance, where she was craftily
keeping out of sight:

"I can't come!" she whined. "I'm wounded!"

All this time, plucky little Tyltyl was defending himself as best he
could, but he was alone against all of them, felt that he was going to
be killed and, in a faltering voice, cried once more:

"Help!... Tyl√¥! Tyl√¥!... I can't hold out!... There are too many of
them!... The Bear!... The Pig! The Wolf! The Fir-tree! The Beech!...
Tyl√¥! Tyl√¥! Tyl√¥!..."

Then the Dog came leaping along, dragging his broken bonds and
elbowing his way through the Trees and Animals and flung himself
before his master, whom he defended furiously:

"Here, my little god! Don't be afraid! Have at them! I know how to use
my teeth!"

All the Trees and Animals raised a loud outcry:

"Renegade!... Idiot!... Traitor!... Felon!... Simpleton!... Sneak!...
Leave him!... He's a dead man!... Come over to us!..."

The Dog fought on:

"Never! Never!... I alone against all of you!... Never! Never!... True
to the gods, to the best, to the greatest!... Take care, my little
master, here's the Bear!... Look out for the Bull!"

Tyltyl vainly tried to defend himself:

"I'm done for, Tyl√¥! It was a blow from the Elm! My hand's bleeding!"
And he dropped to the ground. "No, I can hold out no longer!"

"They are coming!" said the Dog. "I hear somebody!... We are saved! It
is Light!... Saved! Saved!... See, they're afraid, they're
retreating!... Saved, my little king!..."

And, sure enough, Light was coming towards them; and with her the dawn
rose over the forest, which became light as day.

"What is it?... What has happened?" she asked, quite alarmed at the
sight of the little ones and their dear Tyl√¥ covered with wounds and
bruises. "Why, my poor boy, didn't you know? Turn the diamond
quickly!"

Tyltyl hastened to obey; and immediately the souls of all the Trees
rushed back into their trunks, which closed upon them. The souls of
the Animals also disappeared; and there was nothing to be seen but a
cow and a sheep browsing peacefully in the distance. The forest became
harmless once more; and Tyltyl looked around him in amazement:

"No matter," he said, "but for the Dog ... and if I hadn't had my
knife!..."

Light thought that he had been punished enough and did not scold him.
Besides, she was very much upset by the horrible danger which he had
run.

Tyltyl, Mytyl and the Dog, glad to meet again safe and sound,
exchanged wild kisses. They laughingly counted their wounds, which
were not very serious.

Tylette was the only one to make a fuss:

"The Dog's broken my paw!" she mewed.

Tyl√¥ felt as if he could have made a mouthful of her:

"Never mind!" he said. "It'll keep!"

"Leave her alone, will you, you ugly beast?" said Mytyl.

Our friends went back to the Temple of Light to rest after their
adventure. Tyltyl, repenting of his disobedience, dared not even
mention the Blue Bird of which he had caught a glimpse; and Light said
to the Children, gently:

"Let this teach you, dears, that Man is all alone against all in this
world. Never forget that."

[Illustration: A regular waterfall of tears came gushing from her
eyes, flooding all around her]




CHAPTER IX

THE LEAVE-TAKING


Weeks and months had passed since the children's departure on their
journey; and the hour of separation was at hand. Light had been very
sad lately; she had counted the days in sorrow, without a word to the
Animals and Things, who had no idea of the misfortune that threatened
them.

On the day when we see them for the last time, they were all out in
the gardens of the temple. Light stood watching them from a marble
terrace, with Tyltyl and Mytyl sleeping by her side. Much had happened
in the past twelve months; but the life of the Animals and Things,
which had no intelligence to guide it, had made no progress, on the
contrary. Bread had eaten so much that he was now not able to walk:
Milk, devoted as ever, dragged him along in a Bath chair. Fire's nasty
temper had made him quarrel with everybody and he had become very
lonely and unhappy in consequence. Water, who had no will of her own,
had ended by yielding to Sugar's sweet entreaties: they were now
married; and Sugar presented a most piteous sight. The poor fellow
was reduced to a shadow of his former self, shrank visibly day by day
and was sillier than ever, while Water, in marrying, had lost her
principal charm, her simplicity. The Cat had remained the liar that
she always was; and our dear friend Tyl√¥ had never been able to
overcome his hatred for her.

"Poor things!" thought Light, with a sigh. "They have not gained much
by receiving the benefit of life! They have travelled and seen nothing
of all the wonders that surrounded them in my peaceful temple; they
were either quarrelling with one another or over-eating themselves
until they fell ill. They were too foolish to enjoy their happiness
and they will recognize it for the first time presently, when they are
about to lose it...."

At that moment, a pretty dove, with silver wings, alighted on her
knees. It wore an emerald collar round its neck, with a note fastened
to the clasp. The dove was the Fairy B√©rylune's messenger. Light
opened the letter and read these few words:

"Remember that the year is over."

Then Light stood up, waved her wand and everything disappeared from
sight.

A few seconds later, the whole company were gathered together outside
a high wall with a small door in it. The first rays of the dawn were
gilding the tree-tops. Tyltyl and Mytyl, whom Light was fondly
supporting with her arms, woke up, rubbed their eyes and looked around
them in astonishment.

"What?" said Light to Tyltyl. "Don't you know that wall and that
little door?"

The sleepy boy shook his head: he remembered nothing. Then Light
assisted his memory:

"The wall," she said, "surrounds a house which we left one evening
just a year ago to-day...."

"Just a year ago?... Why, then...." And, clapping his hands with glee,
Tyltyl ran to the door. "We must be near Mummy!... I want to kiss her
at once, at once, at once!"

But Light stopped him. It was too early, she said: Mummy and Daddy
were still asleep and he must not wake them with a start.

"Besides," she added, "the door will not open till the hour strikes."

"What hour?" asked the boy.

"The hour of separation," Light answered, sadly.

"What!" said Tyltyl, in great distress. "Are you leaving us?"

"I must," said Light. "The year is past. The Fairy will come back and
ask you for the Blue Bird."

"But I haven't got the Blue Bird!" cried Tyltyl. "The one of the Land
of Memory turned quite black, the one of the Future flew away, the
Night's are dead, those in the Graveyard were not blue and I could not
catch the one in the Forest!... Will the Fairy be angry?... What will
she say?..."

"Never mind, dear," said Light. "You did your best. And, though you
did not find the Blue Bird, you deserved to do so, for the good-will,
pluck and courage which you showed."

Light's face beamed with happiness as she spoke these words, for she
knew that to deserve to find the Blue Bird was very much the same
thing as finding it; but she was not allowed to say this, for it was a
beautiful mystery, which Tyltyl had to solve for himself. She turned
to the Animals and Things, who stood weeping in a corner, and told
them to come and kiss the Children.

Bread at once put down the cage at Tyltyl's feet and began to make a
speech:

"In the name of all, I crave permission...."

"You sha'n't have mine!" cried Fire.

"Order!" cried Water.

"We still have tongues of our own!" roared Fire.

"Yes! Yes!" screamed Sugar, who, knowing that his end was at hand,
kept kissing Water and melting before the others' eyes.

Poor Bread in vain tried to make his voice heard above the din. Light
had to interfere and command silence. Then Bread spoke his last words:

"I am leaving you," he said, between his sobs. "I am leaving you, my
dear Children, and you will no longer see me in my living form....
Your eyes are about to close to the invisible life of Things; but I
shall be always there, in the bread-pan, on the shelf, on the table,
beside the soup, I who am, if I may say so, the most faithful
companion, the oldest friend of Man...."

"Well, and what about me?" shouted Fire, angrily.

"Silence!" said Light. "The hour is passing.... Be quick and say
good-bye to the Children...."

Fire rushed forward, took hold of the Children, one after the other,
and kissed them so violently that they screamed with pain:

"Oh! Oh!... He's burning me!..."

"Oh! Oh!... He's scorched my nose!..."

"Let me kiss the place and make it well," said Water, going up to the
children gently.