
"There ain't a many like her," sobbed Alice when the train had finally
departed. "I'm sure when Charlie went back on me with that girl from
the Dairy, nobody could have been kinder than Miss Grey was, and though
particular about the brasses and the dust, she was always one to notice
when you'd give a thing an extra rub. Cut myself in little pieces for
her, I would, any day. A real lady, that's what I call her."

Such was Katherine's departure from St. Mary Mead.




                    8. Lady Tamplin Writes a Letter


"Well," said Lady Tamplin, "well."

She laid down the continental _Daily Mail_ and stared out across the
blue waters of the Mediterranean. A branch of golden mimosa, hanging
just above her head, made an effective frame for a very charming
picture. A golden-haired, blue-eyed lady in a very becoming negligee.
That the golden hair owed something to art, as did the pink-and-white
complexion, was undeniable, but the blue of the eyes was Nature's gift,
and at forty-four Lady Tamplin could still rank as a beauty.

Charming as she looked, Lady Tamplin was, for once, not thinking of
herself. That is to say, she was not thinking of her appearance. She
was intent on graver matters.

Lady Tamplin was a well-known figure on the Riviera, and her parties
at the Villa Marguerite were justly celebrated. She was a woman of
considerable experience, and had had four husbands. The first had been
merely an indiscretion, and so was seldom referred to by the lady. He
had had the good sense to die with commendable promptitude, and his
widow thereupon espoused a rich manufacturer of buttons. He too had
departed for another sphere after three years of married life--it was
said after a congenial evening with some boon companions. After him
came Viscount Tamplin, who had placed Rosalie securely on those heights
where she wished to tread. She had retained her title when she married
for a fourth time. This fourth venture had been undertaken for pure
pleasure. Mr. Charles Evans, an extremely good-looking young man of
twenty-seven, with delightful manners, a keen love of sport, and an
appreciation of this world's goods, had no money of his own whatsoever.

Lady Tamplin was very pleased and satisfied with life generally,
but she had occasional faint preoccupations about money. The button
manufacturer had left his widow a considerable fortune, but, as Lady
Tamplin was wont to say, "what with one thing and another--" (one thing
being the depreciation of stocks owing to the War, and the other the
extravagances of the late Lord Tamplin). She was still comfortably
off. But to be merely comfortably off is hardly satisfactory to one of
Rosalie Tamplin's temperament.

So, on this particular January morning, she opened her blue eyes
extremely wide as she read a certain item of news and uttered that
non-committal monosyllable "Well." The only other occupant of the
balcony was her daughter, the Hon. Lenox Tamplin. A daughter such as
Lenox was a sad thorn in Lady Tamplin's side, a girl with no kind
of tact, who actually looked older than her age, and whose peculiar
sardonic form of humour was, to say the least of it, uncomfortable.

"Darling," said Lady Tamplin, "just fancy."

"What is it?"

Lady Tamplin picked up the _Daily Mail_, handed it to her daughter, and
indicated with an agitated fore finger the paragraph of interest.

Lenox read it without any of the signs of agitation shown by her
mother. She handed back the paper.

"What about it?" she asked. "It is the sort of thing that is always
happening. Cheese-paring old women are always dying in villages and


"There ain't a many like her," sobbed Alice when the train had finally
departed. "I'm sure when Charlie went back on me with that girl from
the Dairy, nobody could have been kinder than Miss Grey was, and though
particular about the brasses and the dust, she was always one to notice
when you'd give a thing an extra rub. Cut myself in little pieces for
her, I would, any day. A real lady, that's what I call her."

Such was Katherine's departure from St. Mary Mead.




                    8. Lady Tamplin Writes a Letter


"Well," said Lady Tamplin, "well."

She laid down the continental _Daily Mail_ and stared out across the
blue waters of the Mediterranean. A branch of golden mimosa, hanging
just above her head, made an effective frame for a very charming
picture. A golden-haired, blue-eyed lady in a very becoming negligee.
That the golden hair owed something to art, as did the pink-and-white
complexion, was undeniable, but the blue of the eyes was Nature's gift,
and at forty-four Lady Tamplin could still rank as a beauty.

Charming as she looked, Lady Tamplin was, for once, not thinking of
herself. That is to say, she was not thinking of her appearance. She
was intent on graver matters.

Lady Tamplin was a well-known figure on the Riviera, and her parties
at the Villa Marguerite were justly celebrated. She was a woman of
considerable experience, and had had four husbands. The first had been
merely an indiscretion, and so was seldom referred to by the lady. He
had had the good sense to die with commendable promptitude, and his
widow thereupon espoused a rich manufacturer of buttons. He too had
departed for another sphere after three years of married life--it was
said after a congenial evening with some boon companions. After him
came Viscount Tamplin, who had placed Rosalie securely on those heights
where she wished to tread. She had retained her title when she married
for a fourth time. This fourth venture had been undertaken for pure
pleasure. Mr. Charles Evans, an extremely good-looking young man of
twenty-seven, with delightful manners, a keen love of sport, and an
appreciation of this world's goods, had no money of his own whatsoever.

Lady Tamplin was very pleased and satisfied with life generally,
but she had occasional faint preoccupations about money. The button
manufacturer had left his widow a considerable fortune, but, as Lady
Tamplin was wont to say, "what with one thing and another--" (one thing
being the depreciation of stocks owing to the War, and the other the
extravagances of the late Lord Tamplin). She was still comfortably
off. But to be merely comfortably off is hardly satisfactory to one of
Rosalie Tamplin's temperament.

So, on this particular January morning, she opened her blue eyes
extremely wide as she read a certain item of news and uttered that
non-committal monosyllable "Well." The only other occupant of the
balcony was her daughter, the Hon. Lenox Tamplin. A daughter such as
Lenox was a sad thorn in Lady Tamplin's side, a girl with no kind
of tact, who actually looked older than her age, and whose peculiar
sardonic form of humour was, to say the least of it, uncomfortable.

"Darling," said Lady Tamplin, "just fancy."

"What is it?"

that her mother always found difficult to understand.

"Oh, darling," said Lady Tamplin, on a faint note of reproach.

It was very faint, because Rosalie Tamplin was used to her daughter's
outspokenness and to what she called Lenox's uncomfortable way of
putting things.

"I was wondering," said Lady Tamplin, again drawing her artistically
pencilled brows together, "whether--oh, good morning, Chubby darling;
are you going to play tennis? How nice!"

Chubby, thus addressed, smiled kindly at her, remarked perfunctorily,
"How topping you look in that peach-coloured thing," and drifted past
them and down the steps.

"The dear thing," said Lady Tamplin, looking affectionately after her
husband. "Let me see, what was I saying? Ah!" She switched her mind
back to business once more. "I was wondering--"

"Oh, for God's sake get on with it. That is the third time you have


So, on this particular January morning, she opened her blue eyes
extremely wide as she read a certain item of news and uttered that
non-committal monosyllable "Well." The only other occupant of the
balcony was her daughter, the Hon. Lenox Tamplin. A daughter such as
Lenox was a sad thorn in Lady Tamplin's side, a girl with no kind
of tact, who actually looked older than her age, and whose peculiar
sardonic form of humour was, to say the least of it, uncomfortable.

"Darling," said Lady Tamplin, "just fancy."

"What is it?"

Lady Tamplin picked up the _Daily Mail_, handed it to her daughter, and
indicated with an agitated fore finger the paragraph of interest.

Lenox read it without any of the signs of agitation shown by her
mother. She handed back the paper.

"What about it?" she asked. "It is the sort of thing that is always
happening. Cheese-paring old women are always dying in villages and
leaving fortunes of millions to their humble companions."

"Yes, dear, I know," said her mother, "and I dare say the fortune
is not anything like as large as they say it is; newspapers are so
inaccurate. But even if you cut it down by half--"

"Well," said Lenox, "it has not been left to us."

"Not exactly, dear," said Lady Tamplin; "but this girl, this Katherine
Grey, is actually a cousin of mine. One of the Worcestershire Greys,
the Edgeworth lot. My very own cousin! Fancy!"

"Ah-ha," said Lenox.

"And I was wondering--" said her mother.

"What there was in it for us," finished Lenox, with that sideways smile
that her mother always found difficult to understand.

"Oh, darling," said Lady Tamplin, on a faint note of reproach.

It was very faint, because Rosalie Tamplin was used to her daughter's
outspokenness and to what she called Lenox's uncomfortable way of
putting things.

"I was wondering," said Lady Tamplin, again drawing her artistically
pencilled brows together, "whether--oh, good morning, Chubby darling;
are you going to play tennis? How nice!"

Chubby, thus addressed, smiled kindly at her, remarked perfunctorily,
"How topping you look in that peach-coloured thing," and drifted past
them and down the steps.

"The dear thing," said Lady Tamplin, looking affectionately after her
husband. "Let me see, what was I saying? Ah!" She switched her mind
back to business once more. "I was wondering--"

"Oh, for God's sake get on with it. That is the third time you have
